---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-11-10
modified: 2017-11-10
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #30

* Microbial biomass and biological activity of soils and soil-like bodies in coastal oases of Antarctica
* Laboratory Analytical Methods for the Determination of the Hydrocarbon Status of Soils (a Review)
* Comparison of Three Methods for Vertical Extrapolation of Soil Moisture in Oklahoma
* Revisiting the horizontal redistribution of water in soils: Experiments and numerical modeling
* A new approach for zoning irregularly-spaced, within-field data
* Microbial community-level regulation explains soil carbon responses to long-term litter manipulations
* Algorithms vs. surveyors: A comparison of automated landform delineations and surveyed topographic positions from soil mapping in an Alpine environment
* Sensor data fusion for soil health assessment
* Potential contribution of soil diversity and abundance metrics to identifying high nature value farmland (HNV)
* Soil organic carbon dynamics jointly controlled by climate, carbon inputs, soil properties and soil carbon fractions
















<!--more-->

### Microbial biomass and biological activity of soils and soil-like bodies in coastal oases of Antarctica

Authors:
Nikitin, DA; Marfenina, OE; Kudinova, AG; Lysak, LV; Mergelov, NS;
Dolgikh, AV; Lupachev, AV

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (9):1086-1097; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
The method of luminescent microscopy has been applied to study the
structure of the microbial biomass of soils and soil-like bodies in East
(the Thala Hills and Larsemann Hills oases) and West (Cape Burks, Hobbs
coast) Antarctica. According to Soil Taxonomy, the studied soils mainly
belong to the subgroups of Aquic Haploturbels, Typic Haploturbels, Typic
Haplorthels, and Lithic Haplorthels. The major contribution to their
microbial biomass belongs to fungi. The highest fungal biomass (up to
790 mu g C/g soil) has been found in the soils with surface organic
horizons in the form of thin moss/lichen litters, in which the
development of fungal mycelium is most active. A larger part of fungal
biomass (70-98%) is represented by spores. For the soils without
vegetation cover, the accumulation of bacterial and fungal biomass takes
place in the horizons under surface desert pavements. In the upper parts
of the soils without vegetation cover and in the organic soil horizons,
the major part (> 60%) of fungal mycelium contains protective melanin
pigments. Among bacteria, the high portion (up to 50%) of small
filtering forms is observed. A considerable increase (up to 290.2 +/- 27
mu g C/g soil) in the fungal biomass owing to the development of yeasts
has been shown for gley soils (gleyzems) developing from sapropel
sediments under subaquatic conditions and for the algal-bacterial mat on
the bottom of the lake (920.7 +/- 46 mu g C/g soil). The production of
carbon dioxide by the soils varies from 0.47 to 2.34 mu g C-CO2/(g day).
The intensity of nitrogen fixation in the studied samples is generally
low: from 0.08 to 55.85 ng D<inverted exclamation>(2)De(4)/(g day). The
intensity of denitrification varies from 0.09 to 19.28 mu g N-N2O/(g
day).

### Laboratory Analytical Methods for the Determination of the Hydrocarbon Status of Soils (a Review)

Authors:
Pikovskii, YI; Korotkov, LA; Smirnova, MA; Kovach, RG

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (10):1125-1137; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Laboratory analytical methods suitable for the determination of the
hydrocarbon status of soils (a specific soil characteristic involving
information on the total content and qualitative features of soluble
(bitumoid) carbonaceous substances and individual hydrocarbons
(polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, alkanes, etc.) in bitumoid, as well
as the composition and content of hydrocarbon gases) have been
considered. Among different physicochemical methods of study, attention
is focused on the methods suitable for the wide use.
Luminescence-bituminological analysis, low-temperature
spectrofluorimetry (Shpolskii spectroscopy), infrared (IR) spectroscopy,
gas chromatography, chromatography-mass spectrometry, and some other
methods have been characterized, as well as sample preparation features.
Advantages and limitations of each of these methods are described; their
efficiency, instrumental complexity, analysis duration, and accuracy are
assessed.

### Comparison of Three Methods for Vertical Extrapolation of Soil Moisture in Oklahoma

Authors:
Zhang, N; Quiring, S; Ochsner, T; Ford, T

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (10):NIL_127-NIL_145; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Soil moisture monitoring networks can provide real-time and accurate
soil moisture measurements; however, missing values and the lack of
unified measurement depths across different networks impedes soil
moisture applications at regional and national scales. Therefore,
methods for vertical extrapolation of soil moisture, i. e., using
shallow soil moisture measurements to estimate deeper soil moisture, are
needed for standardizing measurements to a set of common depths. This
study compared three methods, artificial neural network (ANN), linear
regression (LR), and exponential filter (ExpF), for vertical
extrapolation of soil moisture using data from the Oklahoma Mesonet.
Based on our analysis of intra-annual variations in soil moisture, we
divided each year into two seasons, warm and cool. Our results
demonstrate that all methods perform better in the warm season than in
the cool season, especially at deeper depths. The Kling-Gupta efficiency
was used to assess the performance of each method. All methods had
similar performance for near-surface extrapolation of soil moisture (top
25 cm). Although the accuracy of all models tended to decrease with
depth, the ExpF outperformed the other methods at deeper depths. The
soil water index (SWI) is preferred over volumetric water content as
input to the ExpF. Incorporating air temperature and an antecedent
precipitation index into the ANN and LR methods did not significantly
improve their accuracy. We demonstrated that both ExpF and general LR
can be used for SWI extrapolation at sites where only surface soil
moisture data are available. Soil properties may be useful for further
improving the accuracy of the general LR method.


### Revisiting the horizontal redistribution of water in soils: Experiments and numerical modeling

Authors:
Zhuang, L; Hassanizadeh, SM; Kleingeld, PJ; van Genuchten, MT

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (9):7576-7589; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
A series of experiments and related numerical simulations were carried
out to study one-dimensional water redistribution processes in an
unsaturated soil. A long horizontal Plexiglas box was packed as
homogenously as possible with sand. The sandbox was divided into two
sections using a very thin metal plate, with one section initially fully
saturated and the other section only partially saturated. Initial
saturation in the dry section was set to 0.2, 0.4, or 0.6 in three
different experiments. Redistribution between the wet and dry sections
started as soon as the metal plate was removed. Changes in water
saturation at various locations along the sandbox were measured as a
function of time using a dual-energy gamma system. Also, air and water
pressures were measured using two different kinds of tensiometers at
various locations as a function of time. The saturation discontinuity
was found to persist during the entire experiments, while observed water
pressures were found to become continuous immediately after the
experiments started. Two models, the standard Richards equation and an
interfacial area model, were used to simulate the experiments. Both
models showed some deviations between the simulated water pressures and
the measured data at early times during redistribution. The standard
model could only simulate the observed saturation distributions
reasonably well for the experiment with the lowest initial water
saturation in the dry section. The interfacial area model could
reproduce observed saturation distributions of all three experiments,
albeit by fitting one of the parameters in the surface area production
term.

### A new approach for zoning irregularly-spaced, within-field data

Authors:
Leroux, C; Jones, H; Clenet, A; Tisseyre, B

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 141 196-206; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
Management zones can be defined as homogeneous regions for which
specific management decisions are to be considered. The delineation of
these management units is important because it enables or at least
facilitate growers and practitioners performing site specific
management. The delineation of management zones has essentially been
performed by (i) clustering techniques or (ii) segmentation algorithms
arising from the image processing domain. However, the first approach
does not take into account the spatial relationships in the data, and is
prone to generate a large number of fragmented zones while he second
methodology has only been dedicated to regularly-spaced, within-field
data. This work proposes a new approach to generate contiguous
management zones from irregularly-spaced within-field observations, e.g.
within-field yield, soil conductivity, soil samples, which are a very
important source of data in precision agriculture studies. A seeded
region growing and merging algorithm has been specifically designed for
these irregularly-spaced observations. More specifically, a Voronoi
tessellation was implemented to define spatial relationships between
neighbouring observations. Seeds were automatically placed at specific
locations across the fields and management zones were first expanded
from these seeds. The merging procedure aimed at generating more
manageable and interpretable zones. The merging algorithm was defined in
a way that made it possible to incorporate machinery and technical
management constraints. Experiments demonstrated that the proposed
methodology was able to generate relatively compact and contiguous
management zones. Furthermore, machinery and technical constraints were
shown to significantly influence the results of the delineation which
proved the importance of accounting for these considerations.

### Microbial community-level regulation explains soil carbon responses to long-term litter manipulations

Authors:
Georgiou, K; Abramoff, RZ; Harte, J; Riley, WJ; Torn, MS

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 1223-1223; OCT 31 2017 

Abstract:
Climatic, atmospheric, and land-use changes all have the potential to
alter soil microbial activity, mediated by changes in plant inputs. Many
microbial models of soil organic carbon (SOC) decomposition have been
proposed recently to advance prediction of climate and carbon (C)
feedbacks. Most of these models, however, exhibit unrealistic
oscillatory behavior and SOC insensitivity to long-term changes in C
inputs. Here we diagnose the source of these problems in four archetypal
models and propose a density-dependent formulation of microbial
turnover, motivated by community-level interactions, that limits
population sizes and reduces oscillations. We compare model predictions
to 24 long-term C-input field manipulations and identify key benchmarks.
The proposed formulation reproduces soil C responses to long-term
C-input changes and implies greater SOC storage associated with
CO2-fertilization-driven increases in C inputs over the coming century
compared to recent microbial models. This study provides a simple
modification to improve microbial models for inclusion in Earth System
Models.

### Algorithms vs. surveyors: A comparison of automated landform delineations and surveyed topographic positions from soil mapping in an Alpine environment

Authors:
Gruber, FE; Baruck, J; Geitner, C

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 308 9-25; DEC 15 2017 

Abstract:
Landform delineation has long been used in digital soil mapping to infer
soil-relevant information. While its potential as an environmental
variable in soil parameter modeling has been investigated for various
automated landform delineations, little research has been invested into
the relationship between the delineation of land forms by algorithms
based on digital terrain models (DTM) and the perception of landforms by
the soil surveyor during field work. Five Open Source automated landform
classification algorithms and a support vector machine classifier based
on single terrain parameters are investigated with regard to their
ability to replicate topographic position, at two different scales, as
described by surveyors for soil profile sites in the Alpine environment
of South Tyrol. We also analyse how the variation of parameters and cell
size affects the distribution of the computed landforms. While a clear
trend regarding grid cell size and window size can be observed with
regard to the difference between macro and meso scale topographic
positions, the overall classification accuracy regarding the different
topographic position classes was less promising. Although some automated
classifications partly resemble the surveyor's classification, a
considerable number of issues remain to be investigated in order to
explain the lack of reproducibility of surveyor position, some of which
are linked to the Alpine environment of the study area. These include
the dominance of the backslope position, the objectivity of the surveyor
in rugged terrain under forest cover, and the fuzzy nature of
classifying topographic position, especially in steep terrain. By
applying a forward stepwise feature selection procedure for a model
based on single terrain parameters, we show that at macro scale a
regional terrain parameter (topographic wetness index) and curvatures at
a coarse DTM resolution of 50 m are the most influential in
distinguishing topographic position, whereas at meso scale it is the
topographic position index (TPI) with a search radius of just 70 m
combined with slope gradient. This study is an important first step
towards consolidating topographic perception during field survey and
digital terrain analysis, which, at least in Alpine terrain, still
requires more investigation.

### Sensor data fusion for soil health assessment

Authors:
Veum, KS; Sudduth, KA; Kremer, RJ; Kitchen, NR

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 305 53-61; NOV 1 2017 

Abstract:
Assessment of soil health involves determining how well a soil is
performing its biological, chemical, and physical functions relative to
its inherent potential. Due to high cost, labor requirements, and soil
disturbance, traditional laboratory analyses cannot provide high
resolution soil health data. Therefore, sensor-based approaches are
important to facilitate cost-effective, site-specific management for
soil health. In the Central Claypan Region of Missouri, USA, visible and
near-infrared (VNIR) diffuse reflectance spectroscopy has successfully
been used to estimate biological components of soil health as well as
Soil Management Assessment Franiework (SMAF) scores. In contrast,
estimation models for important chemical and physical aspects of soil
health have been less successful with VNIR spectroscopy. The primary
objective of this study was to apply a sensor fusion approach to
estimate soil health indicators and SMAF scores using VNIR spectroscopy
in conjunction with soil apparent electrical conductivity (ECa), and
penetration resistance measured by cone penetrometer (i.e., cone index,
CI). Soil samples were collected from two depths (0-5 and 5-15 cm) at
108 locations within a 10-ha research site encompassing different
cropping systems and landscape positions. Soil health measurements and
VNIR spectral data were obtained in the laboratory, while CI and ECa
data were obtained in situ. Calibration models were developed with
partial least squares (PLS) regression and model performance was
evaluated using coefficient of determination (R-2) and root mean square
error (RMSE). Models integrating ECa and CI with VNIR reflectance data
improved estimates of the overall SMAF score (R-2 = 0.78, RMSE = 7.21%)
relative to VNIR alone (R-2 = 0.69, RMSE = 8.41%), reducing RMSE by 14%.
Improved models were also achieved for estimates of the individual
chemical, biological, and physical soil health scores, demonstrating
reductions in RMSE of 2.8, 5.4, and 10.0%, respectively. The results of
this study illustrate the potential for rapid quantification of soil
health by fusing VNIR sensor data with auxiliary data obtained from
complementary sensors.

### Potential contribution of soil diversity and abundance metrics to identifying high nature value farmland (HNV)

Authors:
Maxwell, D; Robinson, DA; Thomas, A; Jackson, B; Maskell, L; Jones, DL;
Emmett, BA

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 305 417-432; NOV 1 2017 

Abstract:
Identifying and halting the decline of High Nature Value farmland (HNV)
is seen as essential to the EU meeting its 2020 biodiversity targets.
Data on HNV farmland is used to target policy instruments and monitor
changes in HNV to assess policy impact and development. Initial
estimates of HNV land were based on land cover data with limited spatial
resolution. The EU has since taken a distributed approach, allowing
countries to develop their own data and metrics to report on the
presence of HNV land, and changes to it. Land cover type has been the
main data used for reporting but no consistent set of data metrics have
been agreed. Therefore, there is interest in both developing
standardised reporting metrics and identifying land with high
restoration potential to increase the area of HNV land. We explore the
relationship between soil associations and broad habitats across a
member state (Wales) to determine if any discernible patterns exist
between soil and habitat diversity and if soils information might be
useful for identifying areas with high restoration potential. We
developed a set of criteria to identify soil abundance, combining soil
diversity with ecological rare species approaches. The rare (< 1000 ha)
and occasional (1000-10,000 ha) soils identified were associated with
significantly higher levels of habitat diversity than the national
average. We propose that soil diversity information could supplement
habitat information in identifying areas of potential restoration
interest. Two iconic areas of Wales, the Llyn Peninsula and Conwy
Valley, were compared for restoration potential. Soil diversity in both
areas is higher than the national average; habitat diversity was
average, or lower in the case of the Llyn Peninsula. These areas with
higher soil diversity offer greater potential for restoration to type-2
HNV. Soil diversity and habitat diversity were found to be positively
correlated at a national level despite major management modification of
habitats. Given this relationship it is proposed that soil diversity
information offers useful metrics alongside land cover data for
identifying or comparing areas with regard to potential restoration for
HNV.

### Soil organic carbon dynamics jointly controlled by climate, carbon inputs, soil properties and soil carbon fractions

Authors:
Luo, ZK; Feng, WT; Luo, YQ; Baldock, J; Wang, EL

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (10):4430-4439; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Soil organic carbon (SOC) dynamics are regulated by the complex
interplay of climatic, edaphic and biotic conditions. However, the
interrelation of SOC and these drivers and their potential connection
networks are rarely assessed quantitatively. Using observations of SOC
dynamics with detailed soil properties from 90 field trials at 28 sites
under different agroecosystems across the Australian cropping regions,
we investigated the direct and indirect effects of climate, soil
properties, carbon (C) inputs and soil C pools (a total of 17 variables)
on SOC change rate (r(C), Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1)). Among these variables, we
found that the most influential variables on r(C) were the average C
input amount and annual precipitation, and the total SOC stock at the
beginning of the trials. Overall, C inputs (including C input amount and
pasture frequency in the crop rotation system) accounted for 27% of the
relative influence on r(C), followed by climate 25% (including
precipitation and temperature), soil C pools 24% (including pool size
and composition) and soil properties (such as cation exchange capacity,
clay content, bulk density) 24%. Path analysis identified a network of
intercorrelations of climate, soil properties, C inputs and soil C pools
in determining r(C). The direct correlation of r(C) with climate was
significantly weakened if removing the effects of soil properties and C
pools, and vice versa. These results reveal the relative importance of
climate, soil properties, C inputs and C pools and their complex
interconnections in regulating SOC dynamics. Ignorance of the impact of
changes in soil properties, C pool composition and C input (quantity and
quality) on SOC dynamics is likely one of the main sources of
uncertainty in SOC predictions from the process-based SOC models.










