---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-07-21
modified: 2017-07-21
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #20

* Reconstructing daily clear-sky land surface temperature for cloudy regions from MODIS data
* A new method for geochemical anomaly separation based on the distribution patterns of singularity indices
* Assessment of biological activity in agrogenic and natural chernozems of Kabardino-Balkaria
* A fuzzy logic slope-form system for predictive soil mapping of a landscape-scale area with strong relief conditions
* Mapping mineral prospectivity by using one-class support vector machine to identify multivariate geological anomalies from digital geological survey data
* Soil carbon loss regulated by drought intensity and available substrate: A meta-analysis
* Is the rate of mineralization of soil organic carbon under microbiological control?
* Quantification of Soil Permanganate Oxidizable C (POXC) Using Infrared Spectroscopy
* Construction of Membership Functions for Soil Mapping using the Partial Dependence of Soil on Environmental Covariates Calculated by Random Forest
* Neighborhood Size of Training Data Influences Soil Map Disaggregation


























<!--more-->

### Reconstructing daily clear-sky land surface temperature for cloudy regions from MODIS data

Authors:
Sun, L; Chen, ZX; Gao, F; Anderson, M; Song, LS; Wang, LM; Hu, B; Yang,
Y

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 105 10-20; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Land surface temperature (LST) is a critical parameter in environmental
studies and resource management. The MODIS LST data product has been
widely used in various studies, such as drought monitoring,
evapotranspiration mapping, soil moisture estimation and forest fire
detection. However, cloud contamination affects thermal band
observations and will lead to inconsistent LST results. In this study,
we present a new Remotely Sensed DAily land Surface Temperature
reconstruction (RSDAST) model that recovers clear sky LST for pixels
covered by cloud using only clear-sky neighboring pixels from nearby
dates. The reconstructed LST was validated using the original LST
pixels. Model shows high accuracy for reconstructing one masked pixel
with R-2 of 0.995, bias of -0.02 K and RMSE of 0.51 K. Extended spatial
reconstruction results show a better accuracy for flat areas with R-2 of
0.72-0.89, bias of -0.02-0.21 K, and RMSE of 0.92-1.16 K, and for
mountain areas with R-2 of 0.81-0.89, bias of 0.35-1.52 K, and RMSE of
1.42-2.24 K. The reconstructed areas show spatial and temporal patterns
that are consistent with the clear neighbor areas. In the reconstructed
LST and NDVI triangle feature space which is controlled by soil
moisture, LST values distributed reasonably and correspond well to the
real soil moisture conditions. Our approach shows great potential for
reconstructing clear sky LST. under cloudy conditions and provides
consistent daily LST which are critical for daily drought monitoring.


### A new method for geochemical anomaly separation based on the distribution patterns of singularity indices

Authors:
Liu, Y; Zhou, KF; Cheng, QM

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 105 139-147; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Singularity analysis is one of the most important models in the
fractal/multifractal family that has been demonstrated as an efficient
tool for identifying hybrid distribution patterns of geochemical data,
such as normal and multifractal distributions. However, the question of
how to appropriately separate these patterns using reasonable thresholds
has not been well answered. In the present study, a new method termed
singularity-quantile (S-Q) analysis was proposed to separate multiple
geochemical anomaly populations based on integrating singularity
analysis and quantile-quantile plot (QQ-plot) analysis. The new method
provides excellent abilities for characterizing frequency distribution
patterns of singularity indices by plotting singularity index quantiles
vs. standard normal quantiles. From a perspective of geochemical element
enrichment processes, distribution patterns of singularity indices can
be evidently separated into three groups by means of the new method,
corresponding to element enrichment, element generality and element
depletion, respectively. A case study for chromitite exploration based
on geochemical data in the western Junggar region (China), was employed
to examine the potential application of the new method. The results
revealed that the proposed method was very sensitive to the changes of
singularity indices with three segments when it was applied to
characterize geochemical element enrichment processes. And hence, the
S-Q method can be considered as an efficient and powerful tool for
separating hybrid geochemical anomalies on the basis of statistical and
inherent fractal/multifractal properties.

### Assessment of biological activity in agrogenic and natural chernozems of Kabardino-Balkaria

Authors:
Gorobtsova, ON; Uligova, TS; Tembotov, RK; Khakunova, EM

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (5):589-596; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Parameters of biological activity (humus and microbial biomass reserves,
potential intensity of the CO2 emission, and enzyme activity) have been
determined in arable and natural chernozems on the plains of
Kabardino-Balkaria as a part of the system for the ecological assessment
of the state of the soil cover. Integral parameters of the
eco-biological state of studied soils have been calculated on the basis
of obtained data, and the level of changes in their total biological
activity has been determined. A statistically significant decrease of
the values of all the considered biological properties under the impact
of tillage has been found. The data of two-way ANOVA suggest a stronger
influence of agricultural management in comparison with genetic features
of chernozems at the level of subtype. Differential approach is
insufficient for evaluating the total level of soil biological activity,
because there are many biological properties of soil, and the degrees of
their changes in agrogenic soils are different. An integral approach has
been used; it integrates the obtained data into a single integral
assessment parameter. In arable soils, this integral parameter decreases
by 39-46% and makes it possible to assess the degree of disturbance of
the ecological functions of soils and their capacity for
self-restoration.

### A fuzzy logic slope-form system for predictive soil mapping of a landscape-scale area with strong relief conditions

Authors:
Bui, LV; Stahr, K; Clemens, G

Source:
*CATENA*, 155 135-146; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
We studied an improved slope form system using a fuzzy logic method to
assess and map soil fertility of a mountain region in northern Vietnam
that has strong relief conditions. The lack of good soil mapping
techniques in Vietnam has brought about insufficient soil information,
which often leads to false recommendations for land use and crop
planning. The reviewed literature describes soil-mapping techniques
using fuzzy logic method, but all of them are applied for mapping areas
that have gentle relief conditions that are unlikely to be applicable to
the mountainous soils in our study area. In this paper, we introduce a
detailed slope form system that significantly describes the complexity
of terrain characteristics of the area to be mapped, and provides more
detail about the variability of the soil fertility of the area. Nine
basic slopeforms were used to characterize for each of upper-, middle-,
and foot slope positions, making the list 27 slopeforms. Together with
crest and valley, the total unit number is 29. We investigated soils of
the area and classified them into the major soil groups and calculated
soil property indices for all of them. We identified four major
environmental parameters affecting soil formation and soil quality:
geology, elevation, slope inclination and land use. The findings
indicated that soil fertility differs at slope positions. Soils located
at upper slope positions, where agricultural activity only started
recently, are more fertile than those found at middle slope positions.
Soils located at foot slope positions, where eroded sediments
accumulate, also have high levels of fertility compared to those on the
middle slope. The improved slope form system then became an important
additional environmental parameter for this soil mapping work. At a same
comparable category, i.e. slope position, geology, soil group,
elevation, slope gradient, straight slopeforms are an indicator for
better soil fertility compared to convex and concave forms. Although the
findings could not specify soil fertility variability for all 29
slopeforms, they did emphasize the major differences in soil fertility
and soil formation based on three major forms of convex, straight and
concave, with other factors taken into account, such as slope
inclination, geology and elevation. We expect our results to be used by
scientists and local authorities in deriving more effective land use and
crop options for land use management strategies for the northern
Vietnam's mountain regions.

### Mapping mineral prospectivity by using one-class support vector machine to identify multivariate geological anomalies from digital geological survey data

Authors:
Chen, Y; Wu, W

Source:
*AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF EARTH SCIENCES*, 64 (5):639-651; 2017 

Abstract:
Mineral targets are local geological anomalies. In a study area of a
number of unit cells, mapping mineral prospectivity can be implemented
by identifying anomaly cells from the unit cell population. One-class
support vector machine (OCSVM) models can yield useful results in
anomaly detection in high-dimensional data or without any assumptions on
the distribution of the inlying data. The OCSVM model was applied to
mapping gold prospectivity of the Laotudingzi-Xiaosiping district, an
area with a complex geological background, in Jilin Province, China. The
decision function value of each unit cell belonging to an anomaly was
computed on the basis of the trained OCSVM model and used to express
gold prospectivity of the cell. The receiver operating characteristic
(ROC) curve, area under curve (AUC) and data-processing efficiency were
used to compare the performance of the OCSVM model and a restricted
Boltzmann machine (RBM) model in mapping gold prospectivity. The results
show that the OCSVM model outperforms the RBM model in terms of ROC, AUC
and data-processing efficiency. Gold targets were optimally delineated
by using the Youden index to maximise the spatial association between
the delineated gold targets and known gold deposits. The gold targets
delineated by the OCSVM model occupy 11% of the study area and contain
88% of the known gold deposits; and the gold targets delineated by the
RBM model occupy 10% of the study area and contain 81% of the known gold
deposits. Therefore, the OCSVM model is a feasible mineral prospectivity
mapping approach.

### Soil carbon loss regulated by drought intensity and available substrate: A meta-analysis

Authors:
Canarini, A; Kiaer, LP; Dijkstra, FA

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 112 90-99; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
Drought is one of the most important climate change factors, but its
effects on ecosystems are little understood. While known to influence
soil carbon (C) cycling, it remains unresolved if altered rainfall
patterns induced by climate change will stimulate positive feedbacks of
CO2 into the atmosphere. Using a meta-analysis frame-work including 1495
observations from 60 studies encompassing a variety of ecosystems and
soil types, we investigated drought effects on respiration rates,
cumulative respiration during drying-rewetting cycles, metabolic
quotient (qCO(2)), dissolved organic C (DOC), microbial biomass and
fungi to bacteria (F:B) ratios from laboratory and field experiments. We
show that C-rich soils (>2% organic carbon) increase CO2 release into
the atmosphere after intense droughts, but that C-poor soils show a net
decline in C losses. We explain this self-reinforcing mechanism of
climate change in C-rich soils by: (i) high substrate availability that
magnify bursts of CO2 release after drought events and (ii) a shift in
microbial community with increased loss of C per unit of biomass. These
findings shed light on important responses of soil CO2 emissions to
drought, which could either offset or facilitate positive feedbacks to
global warming. Our results should be considered in global climate
models, as even small changes in soil CO2 emission have large
repercussions for global warming. 


### Is the rate of mineralization of soil organic carbon under microbiological control?

Authors:
Brookes, PC; Chen, YF; Chen, L; Qiu, GY; Luo, Y; Xu, JM

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 112 127-139; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
A theory called the Regulatory Gate Hypothesis was previously proposed
to considers that the rate limiting step in soil organic carbon (SOC)
mineralization is independent of the size, community stricture or
specific activity (mg CO2-C evolved g(-1) biomass C) of the soil
microbial biomass. Here we report new experiments to test this
hypothesis. In the first experiment, six different soils were perfused
with CHCI3-saturated water to model SOC release and to stop microbial
activity. Apart from one highly organic soil, they all released SOC at
low and roughly constant rates, over sixty three days. In the second
experiment, when the freeze-dried perfusates were returned to the parent
soils, their % mineralization ranged from 17 to 35% over ten days, in
contrast to bulk SOC (range 0.46-0.77%). In the third experiment, two
soils were given three consecutive fumigations, each followed by 10 days
aerobic incubation. The microbial biomass was decreased by > 90%, yet
SOC mineralization proceeded at the same rate as in nonfumigated soil.
In the fourth experiment, the six soils were subjected to various
perturbations, including non perturbed controls, fumigation-incubation,
air-drying rewetting, freeze-thaw (-20 degrees C and 80 degrees C) and
sieving < 0.3 mm. After an initial flush due to the perturbations, the
rates of mineralization became roughly equal in nearly all soil
treatments and comparable to the control, despite significant declines
in biomass. This shows that basal respiration was little affected by the
perturbations. In Experiment five the effects of the perturbations on
the microbial communities in the different soils and perturbations were
determined. The bacterial community was significantly modified by both
fumigation and air drying-rewetting, due mainly to increased
Firmiculites and decreased Proteobacteria populations. Our findings
suggest that mineralization of SOC is a two-stage process: firstly,
non-bioavailable forms are converted abiologically to bioavailable forms
(termed the Regulatory Gate), which, only then, undergo second process,
biological mineralization. This finding has serious implications for
theories of e.g. SOC dynamics, effects of global warming and soil
nutrient cycling. 

### Quantification of Soil Permanganate Oxidizable C (POXC) Using Infrared Spectroscopy

Authors:
Calderon, FJ; Culman, S; Six, J; Franzluebbers, AJ; Schipanski, M;
Beniston, J; Grandy, S; Kong, AYY

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):277-288; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Labile soil carbon is an important component of soil organic matter
because it embodies the mineralizable material that is associated with
short-term fertility. Permanganate-oxidizable C (POXC) is a widely used
method for the study of labile C dynamics in soils. Rapid methods are
needed to measure labile C, and better understand how this pool varies
with soil C at regional scales. Infrared spectroscopy is an inexpensive
way to quantify SOC and observe fluctuations in C functional groups.
Using a sample set that encompassed several soil types and plant
communities (seven different research projects, n = 496), soils were
analyzed via diffuse reflectance Fourier transformed mid-infrared
(MidIR, 4000-400 cm(-1)) and near-infrared (NIR, 10000-4000 cm(-1))
spectroscopy. Spectral data were used to develop calibrations for POXC,
soil organic C (SOC), and total N (TN) using partial least squares (PLS)
regression. The MidIR predicted POXC slightly better than the NIR, with
calibration and/or validation R-2 values ranging from 0.77 to 0.81
depending on spectral pretreatments. Predictions for POXC were better
than SOC and TN, but site variability influenced the calibration quality
for SOC and TN. Using a selected MidIR region, which included bands
correlated to POXC (3225-2270 cm(-1)), reduced the calibration quality,
but still gave acceptable R-2 values of 0.76 to 0.77 for the calibration
and validation sets. We show that POXC can be predicted using NIR and
MidIR spectra. Selecting informative spectral bands offers an
alternative to using full spectra for PLS regressions.

### Construction of Membership Functions for Soil Mapping using the Partial Dependence of Soil on Environmental Covariates Calculated by Random Forest

Authors:
Zeng, CY; Yang, L; Zhu, AX

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):341-353; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Partial dependence plots generated by Random Forest (RF) imply an
association between soil and environmental variables. This study
develops a method to construct membership functions representing
knowledge of soil-environment relationships from partial dependence. Key
parameters were obtained from normalized partial dependence to define
class limits and membership gradation. Seven environmental variables
were selected on the basis of the variable's importance within RF. Two
cases were conducted to test the effectiveness of our method using
different training samples. Case 1 used 33 representative locations as
training samples and 50 locations as validations. Case 2 randomly split
all 83 samples into training and validation subsets at a proportion of
2: 1; the splits were repeated seven times. For each case, the generated
membership functions were used for mapping soil subgroups in Heshan,
China, under the Soil Landscape Inference Model framework; RF was
conducted for comparison. The results showed that mapping accuracy based
on the membership functions (78%) was much higher than that of RF only
(60%) in Case 1. In Case 2, the mapping accuracies using membership
functions (an average of 67%, SD = 6.5%) were not always higher than
those by RF (an average of 67%, SD = 8.0%). The constructed membership
functions were impacted by the training samples. Use of representative
training samples is recommended when applying the proposed method.
However, training samples (including representative samples and other
samples) with good coverage in the environmental feature space would
allow RF to obtain more accurate soil maps than using representative
samples.

### Neighborhood Size of Training Data Influences Soil Map Disaggregation

Authors:
Levi, MR

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):354-368; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Soil class mapping relies on the ability of sample locations to
represent portions of the landscape with similar soil types; however,
most digital soil mapping (DSM) approaches intersect sample locations
with one raster pixel per covariate layer regardless of pixel size. This
approach does not take the variability of covariate information adjacent
to the training data into account. The objective here was to
disaggregate a soil map in a semiarid Arizona rangeland (78,569 ha) by
exploring different neighborhood sizes for extracting covariate data to
points. Eight machine learning algorithms were compared to assess the
influence of summarizing covariate data in 0-, 15-, 30-, 60-, 90-, 120-,
150-, and 180-m circular neighborhoods and a multiscale model. K values
of all models ranged between 0.24 and 0.44 and increased with
neighborhood size up to 150 m. Support vector machine and random forest
algorithms performed best across all scales. The radial support vector
machine model using a 150-m neighborhood had the highest K and produced
a more generalized map compared with the best multiscale model (random
forest), which resulted in a mix of general and detailed soil features.
Evaluating a range of neighborhood sizes for aggregating covariate data
provides a method of accounting for multiscale processes that are
important for predicting soil patterns without modifying the pixel size
of the final maps. Incorporating concepts from traditional soil surveys
with DSM approaches can strengthen ties between them and optimize the
extraction of landscape information for predicting soil properties.









