---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-05-30
modified: 2017-05-30
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #16

* Bayesian modelling of Dupuytren disease by using Gaussian copula graphical models
* Quantification of Soil Permanganate Oxidizable C (POXC) Using Infrared Spectroscopy
* Construction of Membership Functions for Soil Mapping using the Partial Dependence of Soil on Environmental Covariates Calculated by Random Forest
* Neighborhood Size of Training Data Influences Soil Map Disaggregation


<!--more-->

### Bayesian modelling of Dupuytren disease by using Gaussian copula graphical models

Authors:
Mohammadi, A; Abegaz, F; van den Heuvel, E; Wit, EC

Source:
*JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL STATISTICAL SOCIETY SERIES C-APPLIED STATISTICS*, 66 (3):629-645; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Dupuytren disease is a fibroproliferative disorder with unknown
aetiology that often progresses and eventually can cause permanent
contractures of the fingers affected. We provide a computationally
efficient Bayesian framework to discover potential risk factors and
investigate which fingers are jointly affected. Our Bayesian approach is
based on Gaussian copula graphical models, which provide a way to
discover the underlying conditional independence structure of variables
in multivariate data of mixed types. In particular, we combine the
semiparametric Gaussian copula with extended rank likelihood to analyse
multivariate data of mixed types with arbitrary marginal distributions.
For structural learning, we construct a computationally efficient search
algorithm by using a transdimensional Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm
based on a birth-death process. In addition, to make our statistical
method easily accessible to other researchers, we have implemented our
method in C++ and provide an interface with R software as an R package
BDgraph, which is freely available from
http://CRAN.R-project.org/package=BDgraph.

### Quantification of Soil Permanganate Oxidizable C (POXC) Using Infrared Spectroscopy

Authors:
Calderon, FJ; Culman, S; Six, J; Franzluebbers, AJ; Schipanski, M;
Beniston, J; Grandy, S; Kong, AYY

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):277-288; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Labile soil carbon is an important component of soil organic matter
because it embodies the mineralizable material that is associated with
short-term fertility. Permanganate-oxidizable C (POXC) is a widely used
method for the study of labile C dynamics in soils. Rapid methods are
needed to measure labile C, and better understand how this pool varies
with soil C at regional scales. Infrared spectroscopy is an inexpensive
way to quantify SOC and observe fluctuations in C functional groups.
Using a sample set that encompassed several soil types and plant
communities (seven different research projects, n = 496), soils were
analyzed via diffuse reflectance Fourier transformed mid-infrared
(MidIR, 4000-400 cm(-1)) and near-infrared (NIR, 10000-4000 cm(-1))
spectroscopy. Spectral data were used to develop calibrations for POXC,
soil organic C (SOC), and total N (TN) using partial least squares (PLS)
regression. The MidIR predicted POXC slightly better than the NIR, with
calibration and/or validation R-2 values ranging from 0.77 to 0.81
depending on spectral pretreatments. Predictions for POXC were better
than SOC and TN, but site variability influenced the calibration quality
for SOC and TN. Using a selected MidIR region, which included bands
correlated to POXC (3225-2270 cm(-1)), reduced the calibration quality,
but still gave acceptable R-2 values of 0.76 to 0.77 for the calibration
and validation sets. We show that POXC can be predicted using NIR and
MidIR spectra. Selecting informative spectral bands offers an
alternative to using full spectra for PLS regressions.


### Construction of Membership Functions for Soil Mapping using the Partial Dependence of Soil on Environmental Covariates Calculated by Random Forest

Authors:
Zeng, CY; Yang, L; Zhu, AX

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):341-353; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Partial dependence plots generated by Random Forest (RF) imply an
association between soil and environmental variables. This study
develops a method to construct membership functions representing
knowledge of soil-environment relationships from partial dependence. Key
parameters were obtained from normalized partial dependence to define
class limits and membership gradation. Seven environmental variables
were selected on the basis of the variable's importance within RF. Two
cases were conducted to test the effectiveness of our method using
different training samples. Case 1 used 33 representative locations as
training samples and 50 locations as validations. Case 2 randomly split
all 83 samples into training and validation subsets at a proportion of
2: 1; the splits were repeated seven times. For each case, the generated
membership functions were used for mapping soil subgroups in Heshan,
China, under the Soil Landscape Inference Model framework; RF was
conducted for comparison. The results showed that mapping accuracy based
on the membership functions (78%) was much higher than that of RF only
(60%) in Case 1. In Case 2, the mapping accuracies using membership
functions (an average of 67%, SD = 6.5%) were not always higher than
those by RF (an average of 67%, SD = 8.0%). The constructed membership
functions were impacted by the training samples. Use of representative
training samples is recommended when applying the proposed method.
However, training samples (including representative samples and other
samples) with good coverage in the environmental feature space would
allow RF to obtain more accurate soil maps than using representative
samples.


### Neighborhood Size of Training Data Influences Soil Map Disaggregation

Authors:
Levi, MR

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (2):354-368; MAR-APR 2017 

Abstract:
Soil class mapping relies on the ability of sample locations to
represent portions of the landscape with similar soil types; however,
most digital soil mapping (DSM) approaches intersect sample locations
with one raster pixel per covariate layer regardless of pixel size. This
approach does not take the variability of covariate information adjacent
to the training data into account. The objective here was to
disaggregate a soil map in a semiarid Arizona rangeland (78,569 ha) by
exploring different neighborhood sizes for extracting covariate data to
points. Eight machine learning algorithms were compared to assess the
influence of summarizing covariate data in 0-, 15-, 30-, 60-, 90-, 120-,
150-, and 180-m circular neighborhoods and a multiscale model. K values
of all models ranged between 0.24 and 0.44 and increased with
neighborhood size up to 150 m. Support vector machine and random forest
algorithms performed best across all scales. The radial support vector
machine model using a 150-m neighborhood had the highest K and produced
a more generalized map compared with the best multiscale model (random
forest), which resulted in a mix of general and detailed soil features.
Evaluating a range of neighborhood sizes for aggregating covariate data
provides a method of accounting for multiscale processes that are
important for predicting soil patterns without modifying the pixel size
of the final maps. Incorporating concepts from traditional soil surveys
with DSM approaches can strengthen ties between them and optimize the
extraction of landscape information for predicting soil properties.








