---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-03-28
modified: 2017-03-28
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #9

<!--more-->


### Greenhouse gas emissions intensity of global croplands

[Online Link](http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v7/n1/full/nclimate3158.html)
Authors:
Carlson, KM; Gerber, JS; Mueller, ND; Herrero, M; MacDonald, GK;
Brauman, KA; Havlik, P; O'Connell, CS; Johnson, JA; Saatchi, S; West, PC

Source:
*NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE*, 7 (1):63-+; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Stabilizing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions fromcroplands as agricultural
demand grows is a critical component of climate change mitigation(1-3).
Emissions intensity metrics-including carbon dioxide equivalent
emissions per kilocalorie produced ('production intensity')-can
highlight regions, management practices, and crops as potential foci for
mitigation(4-7). Yet the spatial and crop-wise distribution of emissions
intensity has been uncertain. Here, we develop global crop-specific
circa 2000 estimates of GHG emissions and GHG intensity in high spatial
detail, reporting the effects of rice paddy management, peatland
draining, and nitrogen (N) fertilizer on CH4, CO2 and N-2O emissions.
Global mean production intensity is 0.16 Mg CO(2)e M kcal(-1), yet
certain cropping practices contribute disproportionately to emissions.
Peatland drainage (3.7 Mg CO(2)e M kcal(-1))-concentrated in Europe and
Indonesia-accounts for 32% of these cropland emissions despite peatlands
producing just 1.1% of total crop kilocalories. Methane emissions
fromrice (0.58 Mg CO(2)e M kcal(-1)), a crucial food staple supplying
15% of total crop kilocalories, contribute 48% of cropland emissions,
with outsized production intensity in Vietnam. In contrast, N2O
emissions from N fertilizer application (0.033 Mg CO(2)e M kcal(-1))
generate only 20% of cropland emissions. We find that current total GHG
emissions are largely unrelated to production intensity across crops and
countries. Climate mitigation policies should therefore be directed to
locations where crops have both high emissions and high intensities.


### Mitigation potential and global health impacts from emissions pricing of food commodities

[Online Link](http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v7/n1/full/nclimate3155.html)

Authors:
Springmann, M; Mason-D'Croz, D; Robinson, S; Wiebe, K; Godfray, HCJ;
Rayner, M; Scarborough, P

Source:
*NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE*, 7 (1):69-+; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
The projected rise in food-related greenhouse gas emissions could
seriously impede efforts to limit global warming to acceptable levels.
Despite that, food production and consumption have long been excluded
from climate policies, in part due to concerns about the potential
impact on food security. Using a coupled agriculture and health
modelling framework, we show that the global climate change mitigation
potential of emissions pricing of food commodities could be substantial,
and that levying greenhouse gas taxes on food commodities could, if
appropriately designed, be a health-promoting climate policy in
high-income countries, as well as in most low-and middle-income
countries. Sparing food groups known to be beneficial for health from
taxation, selectively compensating for income losses associated with
tax-related price increases, and using a portion of tax revenues for
health promotion are potential policy options that could help avert most
of the negative health impacts experienced by vulnerable groups, whilst
still promoting changes towards diets which are more environmentally
sustainable.


### The changing pore size distribution of swelling and shrinking soil revealed by nuclear magnetic resonance relaxometry

[Online Link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11368-016-1511-5)

Authors:
Shi, FG; Zhang, CZ; Zhang, JB; Zhang, XN; Yao, J

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 17 (1):61-69; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Purpose Determining soil pore size distribution is difficult and
time-consuming using traditional methods. Additionally, for swelling and
shrinking soil, the specific volume of soil changes with soil moisture
conditions. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) relaxometry allows
observation of pore size distribution changes during the process of
dehydration and soil shrinkage.Materials and methods Naturally
structured soil cores of a Vertisol with characteristic swelling and
shrinking behavior were collected from the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain of
China. The samples were saturated with water and dehydrated gradually at
room temperature and relaxometry tests conducted at different moisture
contents as they air-dried. Then, the soil cores were oven-dried at 105
degrees C and saturated with n-octane, which prevented clay swelling.
The pore size distribution of soil cores at the end of the shrinking
process was determined through the description of n-octane-filled pores.
The shrinkage characteristic curves were determined as naturally
structured soil cores were air-dried from moisture content at full
expansion to constant volume, indicating the relationship between the
volume of bulk soil and moisture content.Results and discussion The
transverse relaxation time (T-2) distribution deduced from NMR
relaxometry gives a good description of the size distribution of pores
filled with protons (contained in water or n-octane). The T-2
distribution curves of soil cores at saturation were trimodal, due to
the presence of interlayer, interparticular, and interaggregate pores.
Combined with the shrinkage characteristic curves, it was deduced that
the structural pores were evacuated during the structural shrinkage
period. The normal and residual shrinkage was accompanied by the
narrowing and closure of the interlayer spaces. During the residual
shrinkage period, the frame structure of the soil particles prevented
further shrinkage of the bulk soil. The shrinkage process was
accompanied by the closure of interlayer spaces and the formation of
large cracks between aggregates.Conclusions H-1 NMR relaxometry was
especially suited to studying the changing pore size distribution of
swelling and shrinking soils. When the soil cores began shrinking,
almost all remaining water was retained in interlayer spaces. The volume
change of the interlayer space was the main cause of swelling and
shrinking. The swelling limit could be estimated from the T-2
distributions of soils at full expansion.


### Magnetic signature and source identification of heavy metal contamination in urban soils of steel industrial city, Northeast China

[Online Link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11368-016-1522-2)

Authors:
Zong, YT; Xiao, Q; Lu, SG

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 17 (1):190-203; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Purpose Identifying the spatial distribution and degree of heavy metal
contamination in the soils is required for urban environmental
management. Magnetic measurement provides a rapidmeans of determining
spatial distribution and degree of soil pollution and identifying
various anthropogenic sources of heavy metals. The purpose of this study
was to characterize the magnetic signature of heavy metal contamination
and identify the sources of heavy metals in urban soils from steel
industrial city.Materials and methods A total of 115 urban topsoils from
Anshan city, Northeast China, were collected and determined for magnetic
properties and heavy metal concentration. Magnetic susceptibility (chi
lf) and saturation isothermal remanent magnetization (SIRM) were
determined as proxy for ferrimagnetic mineral concentration. Magnetic
minerals were identified by using Curie temperature, X-ray diffraction
(XRD), and scanning electron microscope (SEM) equipped with an
energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometer (EDS). The Pearson' correlation and
matrix cluster analyses were used to establish the relationship between
magnetic parameters and heavy metal concentrations.Results and
discussion Urban topsoils exhibit characteristic magnetic enhancement.
The magnetic measurement in particle size fractions indicates that 50-2
mu m fraction has the highest low-field magnetic susceptibility (chi
lf), while < 2 mu m has the highest frequency-dependent magnetic
susceptibility (chi fd) value. The soil.lf and SIRM values are
significantly correlated with the contents of metals (Fe, Pb, Zn, Cu,
and Cr) and Tomlinson pollution load index (PLI), which indicates
that.lf and SIRM could be served as better indicators for the pollution
of heavy metals in the urban topsoil. Spatial distribution maps of.lf,
SIRM, and PLI indicate that the pollution hotspots tend to associate
with the regions within and close to steel industrial zones. XRD and
Curie temperature analyses indicate that the main magnetic minerals of
urban topsoils are magnetite (Fe3O4), hematite (alpha-Fe2O3), and
metallic iron. Magnetic minerals mostly occur in the pseudosingle-
domain/multidomain (PSD/MD) grain size range, which is the dominant
contributor to the magnetic enhancement of topsoils. SEM observation
reveals that magnetic particles in soils exist in irregular-shaped
particles and spherule. Results reveal that heavy metals from
industrially derived and traffic emissions coexist with coarse-grained
magnetic phases.Conclusions It is concluded that the magnetic
measurement could be regarded as a proxy tool to detect the level of
heavy metal pollution and identify the source of heavy metals in urban
soils. Magnetic properties provide a fast and inexpensive method to map
the spatial distribution of long-term pollution from steel industrial
origin on region scale.

### The global distribution and dynamics of surface soil moisture

[Online Link]()


Authors:
McColl, KA; Alemohammad, SH; Akbar, R; Konings, AG; Yueh, S; Entekhabi,
D

Source:
*NATURE GEOSCIENCE*, 10 (2):100-+; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Surface soil moisture has a direct impact on food security, human health
and ecosystem function. It also plays a key role in the climate system,
and the development and persistence of extreme weather events such as
droughts, floods and heatwaves. However, sparse and uneven observations
have made it difficult to quantify the global distribution and dynamics
of surface soil moisture. Here we introduce a metric of soil moisture
memory and use a full year of global observations from NASA's Soil
Moisture Active Passive mission to show that surface soil moisture-a
storage believed to make up less than 0.001% of the global freshwater
budget by volume, and equivalent to an, on average, 8-mm thin layer of
water covering all land surfaces-plays a significant role in the water
cycle. Specifically, we find that surface soil moisture retains a median
14% of precipitation falling on land after three days. Furthermore, the
retained fraction of the surface soil moisture storage after three days
is highest over arid regions, and in regions where drainage to
groundwater storage is lowest. We conclude that lower groundwater
storage in these regions is due not only to lower precipitation, but
also to the complex partitioning of the water cycle by the surface soil
moisture storage layer at the land surface.


### Soil Survey: Pedotransfer Function of Linear Extensibility Percent for Soils of the United States

[Online Link](http://journals.lww.com/soilsci/Abstract/2017/01000/Soil_Survey___Pedotransfer_Function_of_Linear.1.aspx)

Authors:
Seybold, CA; Libohova, Z

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE*, 182 (1):1-8; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Soil survey is an ongoing process from initial soil mapping through soil
survey updates. A national model of linear extensibility percent (LEP)
is needed to improve this process. The objective of this work was to
develop and validate models for estimating LEP using general linear
models and readily available soil survey properties. Measured data from
the Kellogg National Soil Survey Laboratory database (Lincoln, Nebraska)
were used to develop the prediction models. Twenty LEP prediction
equations were developed based on pH and major mineralogy classes.
Noncarbonate clay and, depending on the soil pH, either cation-exchange
capacity or effective cation-exchange capacity explained between 42% and
86% of the total variation in LEP. Model equations using cation-exchange
capacity as a predictive variable collectively produced a prediction
root mean square error (RMSEp) of 1.44% and mean error (ME) of -0.16%.
For low pH soils, the model equations using effective cation-exchange
capacity as a predictive variable collectively produced an RMSEp of
1.29% and ME of -0.034%. The small negative MEs indicate an overall
underestimation of LEP. Breaking down the validation results further
among the different mineralogy groups produced a range of RMSEp from
0.42% to 1.80%. The smectitic group had the largest and the siliceous
group had the lowest RMSEp. The prediction accuracy is considered
adequate for soil survey purposes, and it is expected that LEP estimates
will ultimately enhance soil survey interpretations. The models will be
added to the soil survey database for soil scientists to use when
measured data are not available.


### Land management: data availability and process understanding for global change studies


[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.13443/full)

Authors:
Erb, KH; Luyssaert, S; Meyfroidt, P; Pongratz, J; Don, A; Kloster, S;
Kuemmerle, T; Fetzel, T; Fuchs, R; Herold, M; Haberl, H; Jones, CD;
Marin-Spiotta, E; McCallum, I; Robertson, E; Seufert, V; Fritz, S;
Valade, A; Wiltshire, A; Dolman, AJ

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (2):512-533; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
In the light of daunting global sustainability challenges such as
climate change, biodiversity loss and food security, improving our
understanding of the complex dynamics of the Earth system is crucial.
However, large knowledge gaps related to the effects of land management
persist, in particular those human-induced changes in terrestrial
ecosystems that do not result in land-cover conversions. Here, we review
the current state of knowledge of ten common land management activities
for their biogeochemical and biophysical impacts, the level of process
understanding and data availability. Our review shows that ca. one-tenth
of the ice-free land surface is under intense human management, half
under medium and one-fifth under extensive management. Based on our
review, we cluster these ten management activities into three groups:
(i) management activities for which data sets are available, and for
which a good knowledge base exists (cropland harvest and irrigation);
(ii) management activities for which sufficient knowledge on
biogeochemical and biophysical effects exists but robust global data
sets are lacking (forest harvest, tree species selection, grazing and
mowing harvest, N fertilization); and (iii) land management practices
with severe data gaps concomitant with an unsatisfactory level of
process understanding (crop species selection, artificial wetland
drainage, tillage and fire management and crop residue management, an
element of crop harvest). Although we identify multiple impediments to
progress, we conclude that the current status of process understanding
and data availability is sufficient to advance with incorporating
management in, for example, Earth system or dynamic vegetation models in
order to provide a systematic assessment of their role in the Earth
system. This review contributes to a strategic prioritization of
research efforts across multiple disciplines, including land system
research, ecological research and Earth system modelling.

### Assessing uncertainties in land cover projections

[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.13447/full)

Authors:
Alexander, P; Prestele, R; Verburg, PH; Arneth, A; Baranzelli, C; Silva,
FBE; Brown, C; Butler, A; Calvin, K; Dendoncker, N; Doelman, JC;
Dunford, R; Engstrom, K; Eitelberg, D; Fujimori, S; Harrison, PA;
Hasegawa, T; Havlik, P; Holzhauer, S; Humpenoder, F; Jacobs-Crisioni, C;
Jain, AK; Krisztin, T; Kyle, P; Lavalle, C; Lenton, T; Liu, JY;
Meiyappan, P; Popp, A; Powell, T; Sands, RD; Schaldach, R; Stehfest, E;
Steinbuks, J; Tabeau, A; van Meijl, H; Wise, MA; Rounsevell, MDA

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (2):767-781; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Understanding uncertainties in land cover projections is critical to
investigating land-based climate mitigation policies, assessing the
potential of climate adaptation strategies and quantifying the impacts
of land cover change on the climate system. Here, we identify and
quantify uncertainties in global and European land cover projections
over a diverse range of model types and scenarios, extending the
analysis beyond the agro-economic models included in previous
comparisons. The results from 75 simulations over 18 models are analysed
and show a large range in land cover area projections, with the highest
variability occurring in future cropland areas. We demonstrate
systematic differences in land cover areas associated with the
characteristics of the modelling approach, which is at least as great as
the differences attributed to the scenario variations. The results lead
us to conclude that a higher degree of uncertainty exists in land use
projections than currently included in climate or earth system
projections. To account for land use uncertainty, it is recommended to
use a diverse set of models and approaches when assessing the potential
impacts of land cover change on future climate. Additionally, further
work is needed to better understand the assumptions driving land use
model results and reveal the causes of uncertainty in more depth, to
help reduce model uncertainty and improve the projections of land cover.


### Land-use contrasts reveal instability of subsoil organic carbon

[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.13379/full)

Authors:
Hobley, E; Baldock, J; Hua, Q; Wilson, B

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (2):955-965; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Subsoils contain large amounts of organic carbon which is generally
believed to be highly stable when compared with surface soils. We
investigated subsurface organic carbon storage and dynamics by analysing
organic carbon concentrations, fractions and isotopic values in 78
samples from 12 sites under different land-uses and climates in eastern
Australia. Despite radiocarbon ages of several millennia in subsoils,
contrasting native systems with agriculturally managed systems revealed
that subsurface organic carbon is reactive on decadal timeframes to
land-use change, which leads to large losses of young carbon down the
entire soil profile. Our results indicate that organic carbon storage in
soils is input driven down the whole profile, challenging the concept of
subsoils as a repository of stable organic carbon.

### Application of spectroscopic techniques for monitoring microbial diversity and bioremediation

[Online Link](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/05704928.2016.1199028)

Microbes are the most fascinating group, with huge diversity devising myriad functional applications in the field of medicine, pharmaceuticals, environmental remediation, and industries. Quantitative and qualitative determination of biomolecules and microbial assisted phenomena by spectroscopy is a pioneer approach. It facilitates the study of atomic and molecular geometries, energy levels, chemical bonds, and interactions between molecules and microbes. It produces fingerprints of the microbial species serving to characterize, differentiate, and identify microorganisms, in both the environment and at single-cell level. Spectroscopy-based bioremediation techniques like Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, force spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, photoemission spectroscopy, and laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy have been very well represented and linked with the microbial applications. This review summarizes the traditional spectroscopic techniques used for the study of microbes and microbial-assisted products as well as illustrates its application in the field of microbial diversity and remediation. This will provide an outlook for the intricate characterization and dimension of microbes to be used for effective application in bioremediation.











