---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-09-19
modified: 2017-09-19
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #27

* Developing a molecular picture of soil organic matter-mineral interactions by quantifying organo-mineral binding
* Geolokit: An interactive tool for visualising and exploring geoscientific data in Google Earth
* Automated delineation and characterization of drumlins using a localized contour tree approach
* Measuring land-use and land-cover change using the US department of agriculture's cropland data layer: Cautions and recommendations.
* Is demineralization with dilute hydrofluoric acid a viable method for isolating mineral stabilized soil organic matter?
* Decrease of soil organic matter stabilization with increasing inputs: Mechanisms and controls
* Statistics, Scoring Functions, and Regional Analysis of a Comprehensive Soil Health Database
























<!--more-->

### Developing a molecular picture of soil organic matter-mineral interactions by quantifying organo-mineral binding

Authors:
Newcomb, CJ; Qafoku, NP; Grate, JW; Bailey, VL; De Yoreo, JJ

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 396-396; AUG 30 2017 

Abstract:
Long residence times of soil organic matter have been attributed to
reactive mineral surface sites that sorb organic species and cause
inaccessibility due to physical isolation and chemical stabilization at
the organic-mineral interface. Instrumentation for probing this
interface is limited. As a result, much of the micron-and
molecular-scale knowledge about organic-mineral interactions remains
largely qualitative. Here we report the use of force spectroscopy to
directly measure the binding between organic ligands with known chemical
functionalities and soil minerals in aqueous environments. By
systematically studying the role of organic functional group chemistry
with model minerals, we demonstrate that chemistry of both the organic
ligand and mineral contribute to values of binding free energy and that
changes in pH and ionic strength produce significant differences in
binding energies. These direct measurements of molecular binding provide
mechanistic insights into organo-mineral interactions, which could
potentially inform land-carbon models that explicitly include
mineral-bound C pools.

### Geolokit: An interactive tool for visualising and exploring geoscientific data in Google Earth

Authors:
Triantafyllou, A; Watlet, A; Bastin, C

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 62 39-46; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Virtual globes have been developed to showcase different types of data
combining a digital elevation model and basemaps of high resolution
satellite imagery. Hence, they became a standard to share spatial data
and information, although they suffer from a lack of toolboxes dedicated
to the formatting of large geoscientific dataset. From this perspective,
we developed Geolokit: a free and lightweight software that allows
geoscientists - and every scientist working with spatial data to import
their data (e.g., sample collections, structural geology,
cross-sections, field pictures, georeferenced maps), to handle and to
transcribe them to Keyhole Markup Language (KML) files. KML files are
then automatically opened in the Google Earth virtual globe and the
spatial data accessed and shared. Geolokit comes with a large number of
dedicated tools that can process and display: (i) multi-points data,
(ii) scattered data interpolations, (iii) structural geology features in
2D and 3D, (iv) rose diagrams, stereonets and dip-plunge polar
histograms, (v) cross-sections and oriented rasters, (vi) georeferenced
field pictures, (vii) georeferenced maps and projected
gridding.Therefore, together with Geolokit, Google Earth becomes not
only a powerful georeferenced data viewer but also a stand-alone work
platform. The toolbox (available online at https://protect-au.mimecast.com/s/aYDOBJiAr3QgF2?domain=geolokit.org) is
written in Python, a high-level, cross-platform programming language and
is accessible through a graphical user interface, designed to run in
parallel with Google Earth, through a workflow that requires no
additional third party software. Geolokit features are demonstrated in
this paper using typical datasets gathered from two case studies
illustrating its applicability at multiple scales of investigation: a
petro-structural investigation of the Ile d'Yeu orthogneissic unit
(Western France) and data collection of the Mariana oceanic subduction
zone (Western Pacific).


### Automated delineation and characterization of drumlins using a localized contour tree approach

Authors:
Wang, SJ; Wu, QS; Ward, D

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 62 144-156; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Drumlins are ubiquitous landforms in previously glaciated regions,
formed through a series of complex sub glacial processes operating
underneath the paleo-ice sheets. Accurate delineation and
characterization of drumlins are essential for understanding the
formation mechanism of drumlins as well as the flow behaviors and basal
conditions of paleo-ice sheets. Automated mapping of drumlins is
particularly important for examining the distribution patterns of
drumlins across large spatial scales. This paper presents an automated
vector-based approach to mapping drumlins from high-resolution light
detection and ranging (LiDAR) data. The rationale is to extract a set of
concentric contours by building localized contour trees and establishing
topological relationships. This automated method can overcome the
shortcomings of previously manual and automated methods for mapping
drumlins, for instance, the azimuthal biases during the generation of
shaded relief images. A case study was carried out over a portion of the
New York Drumlin Field. Overall 1181 drumlins were identified from the
LiDAR-derived DEM across the study region, which had been underestimated
in previous literature. The delineation results were visually and
statistically compared to the manual digitization results. The
morphology of drumlins was characterized by quantifying the length,
width, elongation ratio, height, area, and volume. Statistical and
spatial analyses were conducted to examine the distribution pattern and
spatial variability of drumlin size and form. The drumlins and the
morphologic characteristics exhibit significant spatial clustering
rather than randomly distributed patterns. The form of drumlins varies
from ovoid to spindle shapes towards the downstream direction of paleo
ice flows, along with the decrease in width, area, and volume. This
observation is in line with previous studies, which may be explained by
the variations in sediment thickness and/or the velocity increases of
ice flows towards ice front.

### Measuring land-use and land-cover change using the US department of agriculture's cropland data layer: Cautions and recommendations

Authors:
Lark, TJ; Mueller, RM; Johnson, DM; Gibbs, HK

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 62 224-235; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Monitoring agricultural land is important for understanding and managing
food production, environmental conservation efforts, and climate change.
The United States Department of Agriculture's Cropland Data Layer (CDL),
an annual satellite imagery-derived land cover map, has been
increasingly used for this application since complete coverage of the
conterminous United States became available in 2008. However, the CDL is
designed and produced with the intent of mapping annual land cover
rather than tracking changes over time, and as a result certain
precautions are needed in multi-year change analyses to minimize error
and misapplication. We highlight scenarios that require special
considerations, suggest solutions to key challenges, and propose a set
of recommended good practices and general guidelines for CDL-based land
change estimation. We also characterize a problematic issue of crop area
underestimation bias within the CDL that needs to be accounted for and
corrected when calculating changes to crop and cropland areas. When used
appropriately and in conjunction with related information, the CDL is a
valuable and effective tool for detecting diverse trends in agriculture.
By explicitly discussing the methods and techniques for
post-classification measurement of land-cover and land-use change using
the CDL, we aim to further stimulate the discourse and continued
development of suitable methodologies. Recommendations generated here
are intended specifically for the CDL but may be broadly applicable to
additional remotely-sensed land cover datasets including the National
Land Cover Database (NLCD), Moderate Resolution Imaging
Spectroradiometer (MODIS)-based land cover products, and other regional,
national, and global land cover classification maps.


### Is demineralization with dilute hydrofluoric acid a viable method for isolating mineral stabilized soil organic matter?

Authors:
Sanderman, J; Farrell, M; Macreadie, PI; Hayes, M; McGowan, J; Baldock,
J

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 4-11; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
Hydrofluoric acid (HF) is a powerful tool in the investigation of soil
organic matter (SOM) due to its ability to dissolve minerals but not
break the chemical bonds of organic matter. These properties make the
use of HF a common pretreatment step for removing paramagnetic
interferences and concentrating carbon prior to solid-state C-13 NMR
spectroscopy with the working assumption that any SOM lost during HF
treatment will not bias the resulting NMR spectra. Hydrofluoric acid is
also used to isolate a mineral-stabilized OM fraction with the working
assumption that most mineral-stabilized OM is primarily low molecular
weight compounds bound to mineral surfaces and when the minerals are
dissolved in HF, the OM bound to these surfaces will be lost to
solution. The working assumptions behind these two uses of HF
dissolution appear to be contradictory. To address this apparent
conundrum, we treated a number of simple organic compounds, soil and
sediment samples with HF in 2 and 10% concentrations and tracked C and N
loss as well as chemical shifts observed in solid-state 13C NMR spectra.
For the soil and sediment samples there were inconsistent C and N losses
but no difference in loss between the 2% and 10% HF concentrations.
There were no obvious soil properties that could explain the differences
in C or N loss. Overall, there were significant shifts in NMR-observable
organic chemistry after treatment with both 2 and 10% HF with anoxic
fine grained sediments under a seagrass meadow exhibiting strong
preferential loss of O-alkyl C while terrestrial soils generally lost OM
with more of a mixed chemical character. For many samples, the degree of
selective loss was enough to significantly bias the interpretation of OM
composition. Given the lack of ability to explain the large differences
in C loss between samples with observed soil properties, this study
suggests that caution should be used when interpreting HF-soluble C to
indicate a mineral-stabilized fraction without considering the soil
physicochemical environment and putative mechanisms for organo-mineral
associations in that particular soil. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights
reserved.

### Decrease of soil organic matter stabilization with increasing inputs: Mechanisms and controls

Authors:
Shahbaz, M; Kuzyakov, Y; Heitkamp, F

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 76-82; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
Crop residue addition is a way to increase soil organic matter (SOM)
level in croplands. However, organic matter input and SOM stocks are not
linearly related. Consequently, adding high amounts of residues, such as
straw, may increase SOM to only a small extent, and an alternative use
of the residues may be justified. The objective of this study was to
test how the level and type (above- or belowground) of residue addition
affect SOM stabilization. We hypothesise that (1) root residues will be
mineralised slower than leaf and stalk residues, (2) soil aggregate
formation will increase with high additions, and (3) wheat residue
addition will induce positive priming, with the magnitude depending on
the residue level and type. Homogeneously C-13-labelled wheat residues
(leaves, stalks, roots) were added to a silt-loam soil at levels of 1.40
and 5.04 g DM kg(-1) and CO2 release and delta C-13 signature were
measured over 64 days at 20 degrees C. Water-stable macroaggregates (>
250 mu m), microaggregates (53-250 mu m) and silt plus clay size
fractions (< 53 mu m) were separated and C-13 incorporation from residue
was quantified in each fraction after 64 days. Aggregate formation
generally increased with added residue amount, but the proportion of
residues occluded within aggregates decreased with increasing addition
level. The occlusion of residues from aboveground biomass was more
reduced with addition level than that of roots. Residue mineralisation
increased with the addition level, but this increase was less for roots
compared to stalks and leaves. Priming effects were similar between
residue types and mainly depended on the added amount: SOM
mineralisation increased by 50% and 90% at low and high addition levels,
respectively. We conclude that the proportion of residues physically
protected within aggregates decreases and priming effects increase with
increasing C input leading to decreasing rate of long-term C
stabilization within SOM by increasing residue addition.

### Statistics, Scoring Functions, and Regional Analysis of a Comprehensive Soil Health Database

Authors:
Fine, AK; van Es, HM; Schindelbeck, RR

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (3):589-601; MAY-JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Soil health (SH) refers to the ability of a soil to function and provide
ecosystem services. The Comprehensive Assessment of Soil Health (CASH)
is an approach that measures 15 physical, biological, and chemical soil
indicators, which are interpreted through scoring functions. This study
reports on the SH status of 5767 samples from the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest,
and Northeast regions of the USA as evaluated using CASH. Descriptive
statistics and ANOVAs of subdatasets by region and soil textural group
for SH indicators, in addition to correlation coefficients, principal
component (PC) analysis, and best subsets regression (BSR) were
performed. From these analyses, new CASH scoring functions were
developed. Separate scoring functions by textural group (fine, medium,
coarse) were necessary for Wet Aggregate Stability (WAS), Available
Water Capacity (AWS), Organic Matter (OM), Active Carbon (AC), and
Protein. Differences existed among regions, especially for WAS, OM,
Protein, and Respiration (Resp), where the Midwest had relatively lower
mean values compared to the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast. Biological
properties and WAS showed moderately strong correlations (r = 0.58-0.78)
and the highest loadings for the first two PCs. BSR results using the
overall soil quality index as the response variable indicated that AC
accounts for 45% of the variation, with additional predictability from
Penetration Resistance, Resp, and WAS (68%). These four indicators are
suggested for simplified SH tests. We conclude that the CASH approach
can be successfully applied to evaluate the health status of soils with
differing pedogenetic histories.








