---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-01-26
modified: 2017-01-26
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #3

<!--more-->



### Hybrid integration of Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks and machine learning ensembles for landslide susceptibility assessment at Himalayan area (India) using GIS

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S034181621630368X)


Authors:
Pham, BT; Bui, DT; Prakash, I; Dholakia, MB

Source:
*CATENA*, 149 52-63; 1 FEB 2017 

Abstract:
The main objective of this study is to evaluate and compare the
performance of landslide models using machine learning ensemble
technique for landslide susceptibility assessment. This technique is a
combination of ensemble methods (AdaBoost, Bagging, Dagging, MultiBoost,
Rotation Forest, and Random SubSpace) and the base classifier of
Multiple Perceptron Neural Networks (MLP Neural Nets). Ensemble
techniques have been widely applied in other fields; however, their
application is still rare in the assessment of landslide problems.
Meanwhile, MLP Neural Nets, which is known as an artificial neural
network, has been applied widely and efficiently in landslide problems.
In the present study, landslide models of part Himalayan area (India)
have been constructed and validated. For the evaluation and comparison
of these models, receiver operating characteristic curve and Chi Square
test methods have been applied. Overall, all landslide models performed
well in landslide susuceptibility assessment but the performance of the
MultiBoost model is the highest (AUC = 0.886), followed by Dagging model
(AUC = 0.885), the Rotation Forest model (AUC = 0.882), the Bagging and
Random SubSpace models (AUC = 0.881), and the AdaBoost model (AUC =
0.876), respectively. Moreover, machine learning ensemble models have
improved significantly the performance of the base classifier of MLP
Neural Nets (AUC = 0.874). Analysis of results indicates that landslide
models using machine learning ensemble frameworks are promising methods
which can be used as alternatives of individual base classifiers for
landslide susceptibility assessment of other prone areas. 


### Ecosystem responses to land abandonment in Western Mediterranean Mountains

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0341816216303241)

Authors:
Romero-Diaz, A; Ruiz-Sinoga, JD; Robledano-Aymerich, F; Brevik, EC;
Cerda, A

Source:
*CATENA*, 149 824-835; SI 3 FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Agricultural expansion in the Mediterranean resulted in plant and soil
degradation due to the intensive use, climate conditions, and rugged
terrain. After abandonment, the recovery of vegetation contributed to
improvement in soil quality from a hydrological, pedological and
geomorphological point of view. This paper shows three examples of
ecosystem evolution in abandoned fields in Valencia, Murcia and
Andalucia and the application of different methodological approaches
that resulted in similar findings. In Valencia, the main responses were
the recovery of vegetation after land abandonment and an increase in
organic matter and infiltration capacity of soils. In Murcia, with the
exception of some terraced areas on marls, where erosion processes
following abandonment were important, land abandonment resulted in
vegetation recovery, improved soil properties, and reduced surface wash
and soil losses. In Andalucia, research along climatological gradients
showed the relationship between vegetation patterns and soil moisture
and the control that climate exerts on hydrological and erosive
behaviour. The experimental research conducted in three different
regions in Western Mediterranean demonstrated that abandonment can
result in recovery of the geo-ecosystem as vegetation and soil quality
improvements were shown. The marls areas in Murcia were the exception
with low soil quality and low vegetation cover, and as a consequence
showed evidence of high erosion rates after abandonment. 


## Hydropedology and the Societal Challenge of Realizing the 2015 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

[Online Link](http://vzj.geoscienceworld.org/content/15/12/vzj2016.09.0080)

Authors:
Bouma, J

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (12):NIL_57-NIL_63; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) offer a major challenge for
both society and the science community. Hydropedology, combining the
expertise of soil physicists and pedologists, plays a key role in
realizing goals focused on food, water, climate, and ecology, requiring
interdisciplinary research. This update explores emerging trends and
future work, focusing on examples of contributions by pedology to
measuring and modeling in hydropedological studies. Many soil types
create heterogeneous flow patterns that are difficult to characterize
using current soil databases and physical flow models. The clear
potential of hydropedology to produce better modeling results than those
obtained from separate contributions by the two subdisciplines can,
however, only be established by field validation of modeling results
using different types of data and models. Overall soil input in
interdisciplinary SDG-oriented research includes chemical and biological
aspects that become more representative by considering hydropedological
conditions.


### Processes and Modeling of Initial Soil and Landscape Development: A Review

[Online Link](http://vzj.geoscienceworld.org/content/15/12/vzj2016.05.0048)


Authors:
Maurer, T; Gerke, HH

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (12):NIL_3-NIL_30; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
The development pathway of a landscape depends to a degree on the
initial spatial distributions of mineral and organic components. The
interaction between structures and ecohydrological processes during the
critical initial development period is scarcely understood and often
difficult to observe. While viable modeling approaches exist for most
aspects of initial development (e.g., landscape evolution, vegetation
succession), a deeper understanding of the prevailing feedback
mechanisms requires a comprehensive, integrated modeling approach. We
present a review of the current literature regarding the description of
initial structures, the state-of-the-art of research on
structure-forming processes and their interaction with existing and
newly emerging structures, as well as the corresponding modeling
efforts. The most relevant aspects are (i) sediment translocation
processes and initial evolution of topography, (ii) surface crusting,
(iii) vegetation succession, and (iv) the evolution of the soil pore
space. Based on existing conceptions for integrated modeling of the
coevolution of structures and ecohydrological behavior, we outline an
integrative modeling framework that is based on a three-dimensional
spatial structural model of initial sediment distributions, which can be
used to: (i) analyze the spatiotemporal development dynamics depending
on initial structures; and (ii) relate the simulated structural
development to available observations of initial ecohydrological
development. We discuss possible validation and generalization
strategies of modeling results, and propose to define three-dimensional
spatial functional catchment units (process domains) characterized by
specific structural dynamics and the dominant ecohydrological processes.

### From robustness to resilience: A network Price identity approach

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1476945X16300794)


Authors:
Dragicevic, AZ

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 28 47-53; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
We model a closed-loop network of agents distributed among subnetworks
and study the sustainability of network structures in presence of random
perturbations. The model outcomes show that the stability of
compartmentalized networks built on uniform operators depends on
perturbations on between-subnetwork coupling, while the stability of
networks built on mutation operators depends on their assimilation
capacity. Through the study of eigenvalues of the Laplacian, we succeed
in measuring the degree of network robustness and resilience. Our
results also permit to situate the Price theorem, both in its standard
and expanded forms, in the context of network evolutionary variational
identity.


### Fuzzy based energy efficient sensor network protocol for precision agriculture

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916308250)


Authors:
Maurya, S; Jain, VK

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 130 20-37; NOV 15 2016 

Abstract:
Today's, wireless sensor network have become a more emerging technology
in precision agriculture. This paper proposes a novel approach based on
sensor network technology to control the irrigation in agricultural
field automatically. All sensor nodes deployed in the field,
continuously sense soil temperature, soil moisture and air humidity of
the agricultural field and transmit this information to base station
only when the user defined periodic timer or sensed attributes values
exceed desired threshold. In the proposed routing protocol, region-based
static clustering approach is used to provide efficient coverage over
entire agricultural area and threshold sensitive hybrid routing is used
for transmitting sensed data to base station. The proposed protocol uses
fuzzy logic technique to select the best cluster head among other sensor
nodes in a particular round which minimizes the energy consumption of
nodes in every data transmission period. The proposed energy-efficient
protocol is compared with existing benchmark EEHC, DEEC, DDEEC and RBHR
routing protocols. The analysis and experimental results show a
significant decrement in data transmission rate due to user-defined
transmission thresholds. The balanced use of fuzzy logic technique,
static clustering and hybrid routing approach efficiently reduce energy
consumption of sensor nodes in every data transmission round and
prolongs the overall network lifetime by 173.16%, 149.22%, 99.49% and
4739% as compared to EEHC, DEEC, DDEEC and RBHR protocol respectively.

### Mapping almond orchard canopy volume, flowers, fruit and yield using lidar and vision sensors

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916308249)


Authors:
Underwood, JP; Hung, C; Whelan, B; Sukkarieh, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 130 83-96; NOV 15 2016 

Abstract:
This paper present a mobile terrestrial scanning system for almond
orchards, that is able to efficiently map flower and fruit distributions
and to estimate and predict yield for individual trees. A mobile robotic
ground vehicle scans the orchard while logging data from on-board lidar
and camera sensors. An automated software pipeline processes the data
offline, to produce a 3D map of the orchard and to automatically detect
each tree within that map, including correct associations for the same
trees seen on prior occasions. Colour images are also associated to each
tree, leading to a database of images and canopy models, at different
times throughout the season and spanning multiple years. A canopy volume
measure is derived from the 3D models, and classification is performed
on the images to estimate flower and fruit density. These measures were
compared to individual tree harvest weights to assess the relationship
to yield. A block of approximately 580 trees was scanned at peak bloom,
fruit-set and just before harvest for two subsequent years, with up to
50 trees individually harvested for comparison. Lidar canopy volume had
the strongest linear relationship to yield with R-2 = 0.77 for 39 tree
samples spanning two years. An additional experiment was performed using
hand-held photography and image processing to measure fruit density,
which exhibited similar performance (R-2 = 0.71). Flower density
measurements were not strongly related to yield, however, the maps show
clear differentiation between almond varieties and may be useful for
other studies





