---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-11-20
modified: 2017-11-20
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #31

* Shifts in pore connectivity from precipitation versus groundwater rewetting increases soil carbon loss after drought
* A novel earth observation based ecological indicator for cyanobacterial blooms
* Wavelength feature mapping as a proxy to mineral chemistry for investigating geologic systems: An example from the Rodalquilar epithermal system
* Dynamics of Agricultural Soil Erosion in European Russia
* Towards process-informed bias correction of climate change simulations
* Higher climatological temperature sensitivity of soil carbon in cold than warm climates
* Aeolian sediment fingerprinting using a Bayesian mixing model
* Near real time de-noising of satellite-based soil moisture retrievals: An intercomparison among three different techniques
* Landsat images and crop model for evaluating water stress of rainfed soybean






















<!--more-->

### Shifts in pore connectivity from precipitation versus groundwater rewetting increases soil carbon loss after drought

Authors:
Smith, AP; Bond-Lamberty, B; Benscoter, BW; Tfaily, MM; Hinkle, CR; Liu,
CX; Bailey, VL

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 1335-1335; NOV 6 2017 

Abstract:
Droughts and other extreme precipitation events are predicted to
increase in intensity, duration, and extent, with uncertain implications
for terrestrial carbon (C) sequestration. Soil wetting from above
(precipitation) results in a characteristically different pattern of
pore-filling than wetting from below (groundwater), with larger,
well-connected pores filling before finer pore spaces, unlike
groundwater rise in which capillary forces saturate the finest pores
first. Here we demonstrate that pore-scale wetting patterns interact
with antecedent soil moisture conditions to alter pore-scale,
core-scale, and field-scale C dynamics. Drought legacy and wetting
direction are perhaps more important determinants of short-term C
mineralization than current soil moisture content in these soils. Our
results highlight that microbial access to C is not solely limited by
physical protection, but also by drought or wetting-induced shifts in
hydrologic connectivity. We argue that models should treat soil moisture
within a three-dimensional framework emphasizing hydrologic conduits for
C and resource diffusion.

### A novel earth observation based ecological indicator for cyanobacterial blooms

Authors:
Anttila, S; Fleming-Lehtinen, V; Attila, J; Junttila, S; Alasalmi, H;
Hallfors, H; Kervinen, M; Koponen, S

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 64 145-155; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Cyanobacteria form spectacular mass occurrences almost annually in the
Baltic Sea. These harmful algal blooms are the most visible consequences
of marine eutrophication, driven by a surplus of nutrients from
anthropogenic sources and internal processes of the ecosystem. We
present a novel Cyanobacterial Bloom Indicator (CyaBI) targeted for the
ecosystem assessment of eutrophication in marine areas. The method
measures the current cyanobacterial bloom situation (an average
condition of recent 5 years) and compares this to the estimated target
level for 'good environmental status' (GES). The current status is
derived with an index combining indicative bloom event variables. As
such we used seasonal information from the duration, volume and severity
of algal blooms derived from earth observation (50) data. The target
level for GES was set by using a remote sensing based data set named
Fraction with Cyanobacterial Accumulations (FCA; Kahru & Elmgren, 2014)
covering years 1979-2014. Here a shift-detection algorithm for time
series was applied to detect time-periods in the FCA data where the
level of blooms remained low several consecutive years. The average
conditions from these time periods were transformed into respective
CyaBI target values to represent target level for GES. The indicator is
shown to pass the three critical factors set for marine indicator
development, namely it measures the current status accurately, the
target setting can be scientifically proven and it can be connected to
the ecosystem management goal. An advantage of the CyaBI method is that
it's not restricted to the data used in the development work, but can be
complemented, or fully applied, by using different types of data sources
providing information on cyanobacterial accumulations.

### Wavelength feature mapping as a proxy to mineral chemistry for investigating geologic systems: An example from the Rodalquilar epithermal system

Authors:
van der Meer, F; Kopackova, V; Koucka, L; van der Werff, HMA; van
Ruitenbeek, FJA; Bakker, WH

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 64 237-248; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
The final product of a geologic remote sensing data analysis using multi
spectral and hyperspectral images is a mineral (abundance) map.
Multispectral data, such as ASTER, Landsat, SPOT, Sentinel-2, typically
allow to determine qualitative estimates of what minerals are in a
pixel, while hyperspectral data allow to quantify this. As input to most
image classification or spectral processing approach, endmembers are
required. An alternative approach to classification is to derive
absorption feature characteristics such as the wavelength position of
the deepest absorption, depth of the absorption and symmetry of the
absorption feature from hyperspectral data. Two approaches are
presented, tested and compared in this paper: the 'Wavelength Mapper'
and the 'QuanTools'. Although these algorithms use a different
mathematical solution to derive absorption feature wavelength and depth,
and use different image post-processing, the results are consistent,
comparable and reproducible. The wavelength images can be directly
linked to mineral type and abundance, but more importantly also to
mineral chemical composition and subtle changes thereof. This in turn
allows to interpret hyperspectral data in terms of mineral chemistry
changes which is a proxy to pressure-temperature of formation of
minerals. We show the case of the Rodalquilar epithermal system of the
southern Spanish Gabo de Gata volcanic area using HyMAP airborne
hyperspectral images.

### Dynamics of Agricultural Soil Erosion in European Russia

Authors:
Litvin, LF; Kiryukhina, ZP; Krasnov, SF; Dobrovol'skaya, NG

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (11):1344-1353; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Socioeconomic transformation together with climate change in recent
decades significantly affected the geography of agricultural erosion in
European Russia. Calculations of erosion rate and soil loss from slopes
using logical-mathematical erosion models within different landscape
zones and administrative regions revealed spatial-temporal regularities
in the dynamics of these parameters and made it possible to assess the
role of changes in the main natural and anthropogenic factors of
erosion. A universal significant reduction in the mass of soil material
washed from tilled slopes is revealed on the background of
multidirectional changes in erosion rate.

### Towards process-informed bias correction of climate change simulations

Authors:
Maraun, D; Shepherd, TG; Widmann, M; Zappa, G; Walton, D; Gutierrez, JM;
Hagemann, S; Richter, I; Soares, PMM; Hall, A; Mearns, LO

Source:
*NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE*, 7 (11):764-773; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Biases in climate model simulations introduce biases in subsequent
impact simulations. Therefore, bias correction methods are operationally
used to post-process regional climate projections. However, many
problems have been identified, and some researchers question the very
basis of the approach. Here we demonstrate that a typical
cross-validation is unable to identify improper use of bias correction.
Several examples show the limited ability of bias correction to correct
and to downscale variability, and demonstrate that bias correction can
cause implausible climate change signals. Bias correction cannot
overcome major model errors, and naive application might result in
ill-informed adaptation decisions. We conclude with a list of
recommendations and suggestions for future research to reduce,
post-process, and cope with climate model biases.


### Higher climatological temperature sensitivity of soil carbon in cold than warm climates

Authors:
Koven, CD; Hugelius, G; Lawrence, DM; Wieder, WR

Source:
*NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE*, 7 (11):817-+; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
The projected loss of soil carbon to the atmosphere resulting from
climate change is a potentially large but highly uncertain feedback to
warming. The magnitude of this feedback is poorly constrained by
observations and theory, and is disparately represented in Earth system
models (ESMs)(1-3). To assess the climatological temperature sensitivity
of soil carbon, we calculate apparent soil carbon turnover times(4) that
reflect long-term and broad-scale rates of decomposition. Here, we show
that the climatological temperature control on carbon turnover in the
top metre of global soils is more sensitive in cold climates than in
warm climates and argue that it is critical to capture this emergent
ecosystem property in global-scale models. We present a simplified model
that explains the observed high cold-climate sensitivity using only the
physical scaling of soil freeze-thaw state across climate gradients.
Current ESMs fail to capture this pattern, except in anESMthat
explicitly resolves vertical gradients in soil climate and carbon
turnover. An observed weak tropical temperature sensitivity emerges in a
different model that explicitly resolves mineralogical control on
decomposition. These results support projections of strong carbon-
climate feedbacks from northern soils(5,6) and demonstrate a method for
ESMs to capture this emergent behaviour.


### Aeolian sediment fingerprinting using a Bayesian mixing model

Authors:
Gholami, H; Telfer, MW; Blake, WH; Fathabadi, A

Source:
*EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS*, 42 (14):2365-2376; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Identifying sand provenance in depositional aeolian environments (e.g.
dunefields) can elucidate sediment pathways and fluxes, and inform
potential land management strategies where windblown sand and dust is a
hazard to health and infrastructure. However, the complexity of these
pathways typically makes this a challenging proposition, and
uncertainties on the composition of mixed-source sediments are often not
reported. This study demonstrates that a quantitative fingerprinting
method within the Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) framework
offers great potential for exploring the provenance and uncertainties
associated with aeolian sands. Eight samples were taken from dunes of
the small (similar to 58km(2)) Ashkzar erg, central Iran, and 49 from
three distinct potential sediment sources in the surrounding area. These
were analyzed for 61 tracers including 53 geochemical elements (trace,
major and rare earth elements (REE)) and eight REE ratios.
Kruskal-Wallis H-tests and stepwise discriminant function analysis (DFA)
allowed the identification of an optimum composite fingerprint based on
six tracers (Rb, Sr, Sr-87, (La/Yb)(n), Ga and Ce), and a Bayesian
mixing model was applied to derive the source apportionment estimates
within an uncertainty framework. There is substantial variation in the
uncertainties in the fingerprinting results, with some samples yielding
clear discrimination of components, and some with less clear
fingerprints. Quaternary terraces and fans contribute the largest
component to the dunes, but they are also the most extensive surrounding
unit; clay flats and marls, however, contribute out of proportion to
their small outcrop extent. The successful application of these methods
to aeolian sediment deposits demonstrates their potential for providing
quantitative estimates of aeolian sediment provenances in other
mixed-source arid settings, and may prove especially beneficial where
sediment is derived from multiple sources, or where other methods of
provenance (e.g. detrital zircon U-Pb dating) are not possible due to
mineralogical constraints


### Near real time de-noising of satellite-based soil moisture retrievals: An intercomparison among three different techniques

Authors:
Massari, C; Su, CH; Brocca, L; Sang, YF; Ciabatta, L; Ryu, D; Wagner, W

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 17-29; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
Real-time de-noising of satellite-derived soil moisture observations
presents opportunities to deliver more accurate and timely satellite
data for direct satellite users. So far, the most commonly used
techniques for reducing the impact of noise in the retrieved satellite
soil moisture observations have been based on moving average filters and
Fourier based methods. This paper introduces a new alternative wavelet
based approach called Wiener-Wavelet-Based Filter (WiW), which uses an
entropy based de-noising method to design a causal version of the
filter. WiW is used as a post-retrieval processing tool to enhance the
quality of observations derived from one active (the Advanced
Scatterometer, ASCAT) and one passive (the Advanced Microwave Scanning
Radiometer for Earth Observing System, AMSRE) satellite sensors. The
filter is then compared with two candidate de-noising techniques,
namely: i) a Wiener causal filter introduced by Su et al. (2013) and ii)
a conventional moving average filter. The validation is carried out
globally at 173 (for AMSRE) and 243 (for ASCAT) soil moisture stations.
Results show that all the three de-noising techniques can increase the
agreement between satellite and in situ measurements in terms of
correlation and signal-to-noise ratio. The Wiener-based methods show
least signal distortion and demonstrate to be conservative in retaining
the signal information in de-noised data. Importantly, the Wiener
filters can be calibrated with the data at hand, without the need for
auxiliary data. 


### Landsat images and crop model for evaluating water stress of rainfed soybean

Authors:
Sayago, S; Ovando, G; Bocco, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 30-39; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
Soil water content is a vital resource that plays a central role in
agricultural areas. In Argentina the soybean (Glycine max (L) Merrill)
is the most important crop, considering the economic yield and the sown
area. Actually, remote sensing allows continuous monitoring of crops and
to evaluate the impact of water stress in their development. The
combination of Land Surface Temperature (LST) and the Normalized
Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) is an indicator that provides
information about the condition of the vegetation and surface soil
moisture content. In this study we evaluate relationships between
indicators of crop water stress and the Temperature Vegetation Dryness
Index (TVDI) determined from Landsat, for sites with rainfed soybean in
the agricultural central zone of Cordoba (Argentina).Field data were
acquired continuously throughout the whole growing season. For each
sample date and plot, data of percent green vegetation cover, soil
moisture content and phenology were registered. The use of a simulation
crop model allowed obtaining indicators of crop water stress indices:
(1) soil water deficit, (2) crop water use vs. reference crop
evapotranspiration, and (3) fraction of the available water capacity
that is readily available.The NDVI/LST spaces presented a trapezoidal
form, which indicated that TVDI will have similar sensitivity for the
full range of NDVI and showed temporal changes of wet and dry edges.When
soybean cover exceeds 60%, the combination of TVDI with (2) and (3) can
enhance the ability of detecting crop water stress conditions (R-2 =
0.62 and 0.82, respectively). However, the relationship between TVDI and
(1) showed low correlation values (R-2 = 0.21).









