---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-04-21
modified: 2017-04-21
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #12

<!--more-->



### State-and-transition models in geomorphology

Authors:
Phillips, JD; Van Dyke, C

Source:
*CATENA*, 153 168-181; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
State-and-transition models (STM) are used to describe, model,
interpret, and predict when landscapes will undergo a qualitative state
change. Although rangeland ecologists pioneered STMs, geomorphological
STM-type models were developed prior to and independently of ecological
STMs. This study categorized 47 geomorphological STMs according to
whether they were: based on single or multiple study areas; primarily
for description and interpretation or predictive and prescriptive use;
explicitly concerned with complex system dynamics; and the role of
biogeomorphic interactions in the model. Each STM was represented as a
graph and the structure identified. Spectral radii were calculated to
measure the complexity of each STM. Although STMs are associated with
conceptual frameworks that recognize the possibility of nonequilibrium,
alternative states, and path dependency, results show that an explicit
concern with complexity does not necessarily lead to the identification
of more states and transitions, or a more complex transition pattern.
The purpose for which a STM was created, as well as the number of study
sites it can be applied to, also had little bearing on the models'
complexity. This review suggests that geomorphic STMs, rather than being
used to fit explanations about landscape evolution into predefined
theoretical categories, are veridical representations of empirical
observations. Although STMs are particularly useful for grasping the
biogeomorphological dynamics of landscapes, this review indicates their
utility is not limited to biogeomorphology or to systems with a strong
ecological imprint. Time scales involved in geomorphic change can make
it difficult to observe a large number of states and transitions, which
may constrain what types of STM structure can be identified, as the
number of observed states and transitions required to develop particular
graph structures varies widely. 


### A reference library of thermal infrared mineral reflectance spectra for the HyLogger-3 drill core logging system

Authors:
Schodlok, MC; Green, A; Huntington, J

Source:
*AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF EARTH SCIENCES*, 63 (8):941-949; 2016 

Abstract:
A new reference library of thermal infrared spectral reflectance
measurements of the major rock-forming and alteration minerals has been
compiled to support and enhance analysis of data acquired using the
CSIRO HyLogger-3 drill-core logging system. The HyLogger-3 is a robotic
system that acquires large volumes of bidirectional reflectance spectra
from diamond drill core within the wavelength range of visible light,
the near infrared and shortwave infrared (400-2500 nm) as well as the
thermal infrared from 6000 to 14 000 nm. The library samples were
selected as single pure solid mineral crystals or monomineralic hand
samples judged to have a similar bidirectional spectral response to that
of typical diamond drill cores. Furthermore, a large number of
individual mineral samples were chosen to cover the various natural
spectral variations within single mineral groups such as, for example, a
range of solid solutions of plagioclase. Owing to the bidirectional
measurement geometry of the HyLogger-3, spectral variations caused by
crystal orientation effects are also expected. Accordingly, reflectance
measurements were made for multiple surfaces/facets of each sample, and
also for orthogonal orientations of the plane of incidence illumination
for each facet measured. All measured spectra were compared with
existing library spectra or with spectra measured from validated samples
to judge whether the mineral samples could be regarded as pure and,
where possible, their chemical composition and mineralogy were validated
by X-ray fluorescence and X-ray diffraction. For quality control, all
such relevant metadata, including macroscopic descriptions of each
sample, were collated in an associated database. In total, the spectral
library contains more than 2000 spectra, from 562 specimens,
representing 130 mineral groups. This library focuses on the most common
rock-forming minerals of relevance to metalliferous exploration and
mining, with a few limitations resulting from availability of suitable
samples, which will be addressed as new samples become available.
Comparisons with emission spectra from existing spectral libraries show
good agreement, indicating that this spectral library will also be
useful in the remote sensing domain.


### Statistical distributions for monthly aggregations of precipitation and streamflow in drought indicator applications

Authors:
Svensson, C; Hannaford, J; Prosdocimi, I

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (2):999-1018; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Drought indicators are used as triggers for action and so are the
foundation of drought monitoring and early warning. The computation of
drought indicators like the standardized precipitation index (SPI) and
standardized streamflow index (SSI) require a statistical probability
distribution to be fitted to the observed data. Both precipitation and
streamflow have a lower bound at zero, and their empirical distributions
tend to have positive skewness. For deriving the SPI, the Gamma
distribution has therefore often been a natural choice. The concept of
the SSI is newer and there is no consensus regarding distribution. In
the present study, twelve different probability distributions are fitted
to streamflow and catchment average precipitation for four durations (1,
3, 6, and 12 months), for 121 catchments throughout the UK. The more
flexible three- and four-parameter distributions generally do not have a
lower bound at zero, and hence may attach some probability to values
below zero. As a result, there is a censoring of the possible values of
the calculated SPIs and SSIs. This can be avoided by using one of the
bounded distributions, such as the reasonably flexible three-parameter
Tweedie distribution, which has a lower bound (and potentially mass) at
zero. The Tweedie distribution has only recently been applied to
precipitation data, and only for a few sites. We find it fits both
precipitation and streamflow data nearly as well as the best of the
traditionally used three-parameter distributions, and should improve the
accuracy of drought indices used for monitoring and early warning.


### Soil carbon sequestration potential in semi-arid grasslands in the Conservation Reserve Program

Authors:
Li, C; Fultz, LM; Moore-Kucera, J; Acosta-Martinez, V; Horita, J;
Strauss, R; Zak, J; Calderon, F; Weindorf, D

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 294 80-90; MAY 15 2017 

Abstract:
The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) in the USA plays a major role in
carbon (C) sequestration to help mitigate rising CO2 levels and climate
change. The Southern High Plains (SHP) region contains >900.000 ha
enrolled in CRP, but a regionally specific C sequestration rate has not
been studied, and identification of the C pools and processes important
in controlling C sequestration rates remain unresolved. We aimed to
address these gaps by utilizing a CRP chronosequence with historical
rangeland as a reference ecosystem. Soil samples (0-10 and 10-30 cm)
were collected in 2012 and 2014 from a total of 26 fields across seven
counties within the SHP and included seven croplands (0 y in CRP), 16
CRP fields that ranged from 6 to 26 y (as of 2012), plus three
rangelands. Multiple regression analysis was conducted to gauge the rate
of C sequestration under CRP within C pools: soil organic C (SOC),
particulate organic matter C (POM-C), and microbial biomass C (MBC),
with two additional predictors (soil clay + silt content and
precipitation). Despite attempts to control for soil texture by
targeting a dominant soil series (Amarillo fine sandy loam), the percent
of clay + silt (15.2-48.7%) significantly influenced C accrual. The C
sources (C-3 from previous cropping systems or C-4 from CRP grasses) in
SOC and POMC were assessed using stable C isotope signatures.
Additionally, the role of soil microbes in C sequestration was evaluated
by investigating the relationship between MBC and CO2 flux and C
sequestration. SOC increased at a rate of 69.82 and 132.87 kg C ha(-1)
y(-1) and would take approximately 74 and 77 y to reach the rangeland C
stocks at 0-10 and 0-30 cm, respectively. The C-4-C primarily from the
introduced grasses was the main source of C sequestration. SOC gains
were essentially due to increases in POM-C and MBC, accounting for 50.04
and 15.64% of SOC sequestration at 0-30 cm, respectively. The highest
semi-partial correlation coefficients between the increasing years under
CRP restoration and MBC indicated CRP had the strongest effect on MBC
compared to other C pools. In addition, increasing soil CO2 flux and
MBC:SOC ratio with years of CRP restoration indicated MBC played a
critical role in the C sequestration process. Conservation of CRP lands
and efforts to sustain perennial systems in this highly erodible
landscape should be a high priority of conservation programs. In doing
so, significant offsets to increasing atmospheric CO2 levels may be
achieved in addition to erosion control and improved wildlife habitat.


### Evaluation of two methods to eliminate the effect of water from soil vis-NIR spectra for predictions of organic carbon

Authors:
Roudier, P; Hedley, CB; Lobsey, CR; Rossel, RAV; Leroux, C

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 296 98-107; JUN 15 2017 

Abstract:
Visible near infrared reflectance spectroscopy (vis-NIR) is an
increasingly popular measurement method that can provide cheaper and
faster predictions of soil properties, including soil organic carbon
content (SOC). The spectroscopic prediction method relies significantly
on the development of regressions of data in spectral databases or
libraries. While the vis-NIR estimation of SOC was developed in
controlled laboratory conditions, its natural development in recent
years has been to perform the vis-NIR measurements in situ, where soil
spectra are recorded under field conditions. However, environmental
factors, such as soil moisture content, have been shown to affect soil
spectra, making the use of regressions derived using soil spectral
libraries difficult. Direct standardization (DS) and external parameter
orthogonalisation (EPO) are two methods that were proposed for the
correction of variable moisture conditions and other environmental
factors. In this study, we compared DS and EPO on a set of 150 soil
samples (3 depths from each of 50 soil cores) from a farm in New
Zealand. The samples were re-wetted under controlled conditions, and
spectra were recorded at nine different moisture levels. Our results
show that DS and EPO are two effective strategies to mitigate the
effects of soil water content on vis-NIR spectra. While DS and EPO
results were similar when a large number of soil cores were reserved for
calibrating the moisture correction methods, SOC predictions using the
EPO correction significantly outperformed those using the DS correction
for a lower number of cores (5 cores, 15 samples). 

### Soil color sensor data collection using a GPS-enabled smartphone application

Authors:
Stiglitz, R; Mikhailova, E; Post, C; Schlautman, M; Sharp, J; Pargas, R;
Glover, B; Mooney, J

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 296 108-114; JUN 15 2017 

Abstract:
Application of accurate and low-cost sensor technology to collect soil
color data provides an opportunity to increase the density, quality and
quantity of soil data to monitor our changing soil resources. The
objective of this study was to develop a mobile application that would
enable users to create their own soils database consisting of GPS
location and soil color data gathered using the application and a mobile
sensor. A mobile application was created utilizing the Nix(Tm) Pro color
sensor that produces multiple color results, including Munsell color
notation. The application also allows users to toggle between "in-field"
sampling as well as dry or moist soil samples. Users can choose to
record GPS location and a photo of the soil sample to upload into an
online database for storage. The application was tested for
functionality in the field and for its ability to match Munsell notation
values determined using a Munsell Soil Color Chart (MSCC). Field data
were synchronized to a cloud database and subsequently retrieved and
used to produce a Geographic Information Systems (GIS) layout showing
sample point locations and soil color attributes. The Soil Scanner
application allows for rapid analysis and collection of soils data that
can be stored for further study and reference using various color
systems and location data.

### Relationship between soil clay mineralogy and carbon protection capacity as influenced by temperature and moisture

Authors:
Singh, M; Sarkar, B; Biswas, B; Bolan, NS; Churchman, GJ

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 109 95-106; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Environmental conditions like temperature and moisture could affect the
carbon protection capacity of various clay types in soils. Using
dominantly kaolinitic-illitic, smectitic and allophanic soils, we
conducted systematic incubation experiments over 42 days at different
temperatures (4, 22 and 37 degrees C) and moisture contents (30, 60 and
90% of water holding capacity (available water)). The basal respiration
was monitored to study the relative effect of moisture contents and
temperature on the carbon protection capacities and mechanisms of the
three clay types. The results indicated that carbon decomposition
increased with increasing moisture and temperature. A two-component
quadratic equation could explain the carbon mineralisation process. The
highest C respiration was observed at 37 degrees C with a 60% moisture
level in each of the soil types. Under these conditions, the smectitic
soil recorded the highest carbon decomposition followed by the
kaolinitic-illitic and allophanic soils. The study of the priming effect
using C-14 lab-died malic acid confirmed the trend of the bulk
respiration results. The allophanic soil showed the lowest amount of
carbon mineralisation under all experimental conditions. A strong
inverse correlation (R-2 = 0.90 at p < 0.05) was observed between CO2
emission rate and total sesquioxides (Fe and Al oxides) content. As
evidenced by the pore size distribution, micromorphologies and
thermogravimetric analyses, the microporous structure and micrbaggregate
formation in the allophanic soil enhanced carbon sequestration. This
study indicated that soil carbon stabilisation was related more to the
sesquioxides content than to the clay types or their relative specific
surface areas. 


### Measuring functional pedodiversity using spectroscopic information

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0341816217300127)


Authors:
Fajardo, MP; McBratney, AB; Minasny, B

Source:
*CATENA*, 152 103-114; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Pedodiversity studies greatly depend on the discretization of the soil
continuum via various soil classification standards. Soil taxonomic
systems are constructed considering soil properties and their
organization in the soil profile. Therefore, it seems logical that the
pedodiversity of an area could be calculated by considering the
simultaneous variation of multiple soil properties within that area.
With the aim of creating a bridge between these two lines of thinking,
this study presents the development of two new indices of pedodiversity
(HULLdiv and EIGENdiv) which consider continuous variables as input. The
soil input information tested was a) Visible and Near Infrared (Vis-NIR)
reflectance values and b) values of five soil properties predicted from
Vis-NIR spectra. Both indices were employed to measure the pedodiversity
at different extents in two perpendicular transects containing 27 (North
to South) and 22 (East to West) locations respectively in New South
Wales (NSW), Australia. Each location considered natural and intervened
land Use. The indices successfully represented the pedodiversity of the
area of study, however they were different depending on the input soil
information i.e., raw Vis-NIR and predicted properties. HULLdiv was
affected by extreme soil observations and as a result its discrimination
power between areas with different soil diversity was inferior. On the
other hand, EIGENdiv represented well the pedodiversity of an area,
despite the extreme observations. The results showed good agreement with
conventional methods for assessing pedodiversity i.e., Shannon's and
Simpson's indices. However, the new indices were more discriminating by
being able to better represent the landuse effect. This study represents
the first attempt to measure pedodiversity in a continuous way using
Vis-NIR information.


### A comparison of soil quality evaluation methods for Fluvisol along the lower Yellow River



Authors:
Guo, LL; Sun, ZG; Ouyang, Z; Han, DR; Li, FD

Source:
*CATENA*, 152 135-143; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Soil quality evaluation as a decision-making tool to improve
understanding of soil quality is essential for grading croplands and
adopting proper agricultural practices. Various methods of soil quality
evaluation have been developed, which have Occasionally generated
inconsistent evaluation results between differing soil types. The
applicability of these techniques is seldom tested before implementing
an evaluation method on a specific soil region. Fluvisol is an important
soil resource for agriculture in China, especially for irrigation
districts along the lower Yellow River. In the present study, the soil
quality of two typical agricultural counties (Yucheng and Kenli) along
the lower Yellow River was evaluated using four commonly utilized
methods. In the two counties, the overall spatial patterns of soil
quality derived from the four methods were similar, with differences in
details existing among these methods. The soil quality in Yucheng,
ranging from moderate to high, is superior to that observed in Kenli,
where salinity is the primary limiting factor. In addition, the
applicability of soil quality evaluation methods on the Fluvisol was
investigated. It was found that the integrated quality indexing-linear
scoring (IQI-LS) and the Nemoro indexing-Linear scoring (NQI-LS) methods
were the most accurate and practical of the four methods studied. These
methods, which are based on the total data set of indicators, show
better performance for soil quality evaluation on a Fluvisol. Further,
different evaluation methods based on the Minimum data set of indicators
were compared, considering both the accuracy of the evaluation and the
economic cost of obtaining the soil data. The results from the present
study indicate that the IQI-LS method based on the minimum data set of
indictors is recommended for large-scale soil quality evaluations.


### Soil microbes and their response to experimental warming over time: A meta-analysis of field studies

Authors:
Romero-Olivares, AL; Allison, SD; Treseder, KK

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 107 32-40; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Numerous field studies have found changes in soil respiration and
microbial abundance under experimental warming. Yet, it is uncertain
whether the magnitude of these responses remains consistent over the
long-term. We performed a meta-analysis on 25 field experiments to
examine how warming effects on soil respiration, microbial biomass, and
soil microbial C respond to the duration of warming. For each parameter,
we hypothesized that effect sizes of warming would diminish as the
duration of warming increased. In support of our hypothesis, warming
initially increased soil respiration, but the magnitude of this effect
declined significantly as warming progressed as evidenced by the two
longest studies in our meta-analysis. In fact, after 10 years of
warming, soil respiration in warmed treatments was similar to controls.
In contrast, warming effect sizes for fungal biomass, bacterial biomass,
and soil microbial C did not respond significantly to the duration of
warming. Microbial acclimation, community shifts, adaptation, or
reductions in labile C may have ameliorated warming effects on soil
respiration in the longterm. Accordingly, long-term soil C losses might
be smaller than those suggested by short-term warming studies








