---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-08-14
modified: 2017-08-14
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #23

* Agriculture in 2050: Recalibrating Targets for Sustainable Intensification
* Temperature-Vegetation-soil Moisture Dryness Index (TVMDI)
* Combining measured sites, soilscapes map and soil sensing for mapping soil properties of a region










<!--more-->

### Agriculture in 2050: Recalibrating Targets for Sustainable Intensification

Authors:
Hunter, MC; Smith, RG; Schipanski, ME; Atwood, LW; Mortensen, DA

Source:
*BIOSCIENCE*, 67 (4):385-390; APR 2017 

Abstract:
The prevailing discourse on the future of agriculture is dominated by an
imbalanced narrative that calls for food production to increase
dramatically-potentially doubling by 2050-without specifying
commensurate environmental goals. We aim to rebalance this narrative by
laying out quantitative and compelling midcentury targets for both
production and the environment. Our analysis shows that an increase of
approximately 25%-70% above current production levels may be sufficient
to meet 2050 crop demand. At the same time, nutrient losses and
greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture must drop dramatically to
restore and maintain ecosystem functioning. Specifying quantitative
targets will clarify the scope of the challenges that agriculture must
face in the coming decades, focus research and policy on achieving
specific outcomes, and ensure that sustainable intensification efforts
lead to measurable environmental improvements. We propose new directions
for research and policy to help meet both sustainability and production
goals.

### Temperature-Vegetation-soil Moisture Dryness Index (TVMDI)

Authors:
Amani, M; Salehi, B; Mahdavi, S; Masjedi, A; Dehnavi, S

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 197 1-14; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
While SoilMoisture (SM) can be used as a direct indictor of dryness, the
Land Surface Temperature (LST) and vegetation status are indirectly
related to SM, and consequently, affect the degree of dryness. Each of
these three variables has been individually used to assess the dryness.
Furthermore, a combination of the LST and vegetation information has
also been applied for dryness estimation through the scatter-plot of the
LST and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI). However, a
combination of these three variables has not been used to estimate the
dryness. In this study, a 3 Dimensional (3D) space of the LST,
Perpendicular Vegetation Index (PVI), and SM was developed to define a
new dryness index named the Temperature-Vegetation-soil Moisture Dryness
Index (TVMDI). The TVMDI was evaluated against in situ SM and soil
temperature data, as well as the NDVI. The results demonstrated that the
TVMDI values were highly correlated with the field soil temperature data
and the NDVI (R = 0.78 and R = -0.87, respectively). However, even
though the dryness values estimated from the TVMDI were not highly
correlated with the in situ SM data, the correlation was still
acceptable (R = -0.65). Furthermore, a comparison between the proposed
index and several satellite-based dryness indices, including the
Perpendicular Drought Index (PDI), Modified Perpendicular Drought Index
(MPDI), Second Modified Perpendicular Drought Index (MPDI1), and
Temperature-Vegetation Dryness Index (TVDI), concluded that the TVMDI
was the most accurate index. Moreover, using the TVMDI and
multi-temporal Landsat 8 images two dryness maps were produced for the
Yanco area to show the effectiveness of the proposed index in depicting
the temporal and spatial variation of dryness values for medium spatial
resolution images. To show the effectiveness of the TVMDI in large scale
applications, two dryness maps from the all of Australia and Iran were
also produced using the MODerate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS)
data. Overall, it was concluded that the TVMDI had a high potential to
map dryness over different regions, and is a promising index for early
awareness of drought risk management.

### Combining measured sites, soilscapes map and soil sensing for mapping soil properties of a region

Authors:
Walker, E; Monestiez, P; Gomez, C; Lagacherie, P

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 300 64-73; AUG 15 2017 

Abstract:
The limited availability of soil information has been recognized as a
main limiting factor in digital soil mapping (DSM) studies. It is
therefore important to optimize the joint use of the three sources of
soil data that can be used as inputs of DSM models, namely spatial sets
of measured sites, soil maps and soil sensing products. In this paper,
we propose to combine these three inputs, through a cokriging with a
categorical external drift (CKCED). This new interpolation technique was
applied for mapping seven soil properties over a 24.6 km(2) area located
in the vineyard plain of Languedoc (Southern France), using an
hyperspectral imagery product as example of a soil sensing data.
Cross-validation results of CKCED were compared with those of five
spatial and non-spatial techniques using one of these inputs or a
combination of two of them. The results obtained in the La Peyne
Catchment showed i) the utility of soil map and hyperspectral imagery
products as auxiliary data for improving soil property predictions ii)
the greater added-value of the latter against the former in most
situations and iii) the feasibility and the interest of CKCED in a
limited number of soil properties and data configurations. Testing CKCED
in case study with soil maps of better quality and soil sensing
techniques covering more area and depths should be necessary to better
evaluate the benefits of this new technique.

