---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-10-09
modified: 2017-10-09
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #29

* Parallelization of interpolation, solar radiation and water flow simulation modules in GRASS GIS using OpenMP
* Nitrogen balance in Australia and nitrogen use efficiency on Australian farms
* Deriving adaptive operating rules of hydropower reservoirs using time-varying parameters generated by the EnKF
* A geospatial decision support system for supporting quality viticulture at the landscape scale
* A generic ontological network for Agri-food experiment integration - Application to viticulture and winemaking
* Bayesian principal component regression model with spatial effects for forest inventory variables under small field sample size













<!--more-->

### Parallelization of interpolation, solar radiation and water flow simulation modules in GRASS GIS using OpenMP

Authors:
Hofierka, J; Lacko, M; Zubal, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 107 20-27; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
In this paper, we describe the parallelization of three complex and
computationally intensive modules of GRASS GIS using the OpenMP
application programming interface for multi-core computers. These
include the v.surf.rst module for spatial interpolation, the r.sun
module for solar radiation modeling and the r.sim.water module for water
flow simulation. We briefly describe the functionality of the modules
and parallelization approaches used in the modules. Our approach
includes the analysis of the module's functionality, identification of
source code segments suitable for parallelization and proper application
of OpenMP parallelization code to create efficient threads processing
the subtasks. We document the efficiency of the solutions using the
airborne laser scanning data representing land surface in the test area
and derived high-resolution digital terrain model grids. We discuss the
performance speed-up and parallelization efficiency depending on the
number of processor threads. The study showed a substantial increase in
computation speeds on a standard multi-core computer while maintaining
the accuracy of results in comparison to the output from original
modules. The presented parallelization approach showed the simplicity
and efficiency of the parallelization of open-source GRASS GIS modules
using OpenMP, leading to an increased performance of this geospatial
software on standard multi-core computers.


### Nitrogen balance in Australia and nitrogen use efficiency on Australian farms

Authors:
Angus, JF; Grace, PR

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 55 (5-6):435-450; 2017 

Abstract:
The amount of reactive N in soils on the Australian continent appears to
be increasing, mainly because of biological N-fixation by permanent
pastures in the dryland farming zone. This gain is partly offset by
N-mining by crops, which we estimate have removed between one-fifth and
one-quarter of the original soil N. The vast areas of non-agricultural
land and arid rangelands appear to be in neutral N balance and the
relatively small area of intensive agriculture is in negative balance.
There are regional N losses from the sugar and dairy industries to
groundwater, estuaries and lagoons, including the Great Barrier Reef.
Fertiliser N application is increasing, and is likely to increase
further, to compensate for the soil-N mining and to meet increasing crop
yield potential, but fertiliser-N represents a relatively small fraction
of the Australian N balance. The dryland farming zone utilises the
largest amounts of native and fertiliser N. The average fertiliser
application to dryland cereals and oilseeds, 45kg N ha(-1), is low by
international standards because of the small N-demand by dryland crops
and because there are no subsidies on crops or fertiliser that promote
overuse. The efficiency of N-use is relatively low, for example about
40% of fertiliser N is recovered in the aboveground parts of dryland
wheat and the rest is retained in the soil, denitrified or otherwise
lost. We suggest further research on fertiliser-application methods to
increase crop recovery of fertiliser, as well as research to reduce the
surplus N from permanent pasture.

### Deriving adaptive operating rules of hydropower reservoirs using time-varying parameters generated by the EnKF

Authors:
Feng, MY; Liu, P; Guo, SL; Shi, LS; Deng, C; Ming, B

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (8):6885-6907; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Operating rules have been used widely to decide reservoir operations
because of their capacity for coping with uncertain inflow. However,
stationary operating rules lack adaptability; thus, under changing
environmental conditions, they cause inefficient reservoir operation.
This paper derives adaptive operating rules based on time-varying
parameters generated using the ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF). A
deterministic optimization model is established to obtain optimal water
releases, which are further taken as observations of the reservoir
simulation model. The EnKF is formulated to update the operating rules
sequentially, providing a series of time-varying parameters. To identify
the index that dominates the variations of the operating rules, three
hydrologic factors are selected: the reservoir inflow, ratio of future
inflow to current available water, and available water. Finally,
adaptive operating rules are derived by fitting the time-varying
parameters with the identified dominant hydrologic factor. China's Three
Gorges Reservoir was selected as a case study. Results show that (1) the
EnKF has the capability of capturing the variations of the operating
rules, (2) reservoir inflow is the factor that dominates the variations
of the operating rules, and (3) the derived adaptive operating rules are
effective in improving hydropower benefits compared with stationary
operating rules. The insightful findings of this study could be used to
help adapt reservoir operations to mitigate the effects of changing
environmental conditions.

### A geospatial decision support system for supporting quality viticulture at the landscape scale

Authors:
Terribile, F; Bonfante, A; D'Antonio, A; De Mascellis, R; De Michele, C;
Langella, G; Manna, P; Mileti, FA; Vingiani, S; Basile, A

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 140 88-102; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
The world of viticulture connected to wine making has become a very
important activity in many inland areas permitting both the generation
of important income and the sustaining of agriculture systems.Recent
progress in both crop modeling and Decision Support Systems (DSS)
applied to viticulture promises important changes that combine both high
quality production and environmental sustainability. However, most of
this progress is only addressed at the farm level and does not challenge
the viticulture landscape, which is a key issue when facing DOC, DOCG
areas, wine growers' cooperatives and consortiums and strategic
viticulture planning.Thus, this paper aims to demonstrate that a new
type of DSS, which is developed on a Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure
(GCI) platform, may provide an important web-based operational tool for
high quality viticulture as it connects farm and landscape levels
better.The GCI platform supports acquisition, management, processing of
both static and dynamic data (e.g. pedological, daily climatic, and
vineyard distribution), data visualization, and on-the-fly computer
applications in order to perform simulation modeling (e.g. grapevine
water stress, evaluation of ecosystem services, etc.). These are all
potentially accessible via the Web.This is possible thanks to the
implementation of a set of modeling clusters that is strongly rooted in
soil-plant-atmosphere and physically based simulation modeling.The DSS
tool, applied to an area of 20,000 ha in Southern Italy, is designed to
address viticulture planning and management by providing operational
support for farmers, farmer associations and decision makers involved in
the viticulture landscape.Output of the system includes viticulture
planning and management scenario analysis, maps and evaluation of
potential and current plant water stress.The tool will also be
demonstrated through a short selection of practical case studies.

### A generic ontological network for Agri-food experiment integration - Application to viticulture and winemaking

Authors:
Muljarto, AR; Salmon, JM; Charnomordic, B; Buche, P; Tireau, A; Neveu, P

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 140 433-442; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
This paper presents an ontological approach of scientific experimental
data integration across complementary sub-domains, i.e., agricultural
production and food processing, with an application to viticulture and
winemaking. The two main steps in this approach are (i) to integrate
preexisting ontologies to create a so-called ontology network and (ii)
to populate the ontology network with experimental data from various
sources. The Agri-Food Experiment Ontology (AFEO), a new ontology
network, was developed, based on two ontological resources, i.e., AEO
(Ontology for Agricultural Experiments) and OFPE (Ontology for Food
Processing Experiments). It contains 136 concepts which cover various
viticulture practices, as well as winemaking products and operations.
AFEO was used to guide the data integration of two different data
sources, i.e., viticulture experimental data stored in a relational
database, and winemaking experimental data stored in Microsoft Excel
files. Two applications illustrate the approach. The first one is on
wine traceability and the second one is related to the influence of
irrigation practices and winemaking methods on GSH concentration in
wine. These examples show that data integration guided by an ontology
network can provide researchers with the information necessary to
address extended research questions.

### Bayesian principal component regression model with spatial effects for forest inventory variables under small field sample size

Authors:
Junttila, V; Laine, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 192 45-57; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Remote sensing observations are extensively used for analysis of
environmental variables. These variables often exhibit spatial
correlation, which has to be accounted for in the calibration models
used in predictions, either by direct modelling of the dependencies or
by allowing for spatially correlated stochastic effects. Another feature
in many remote sensing instruments is that the derived predictor
variables are highly correlated, which can lead to unnecessary model
over-training and at worst, singularities in the estimates. Both of
these affect the prediction accuracy, especially when the training set
for model calibration is small. To overcome these modelling challenges,
we present a general model calibration procedure for remotely sensed
data and apply it to airborne laser scanning data for forest inventory.
We use a linear regression model that accounts for multicollinearity in
the predictors by principal components and Bayesian regularization. It
has a spatial random effect component for the spatial correlations that
are not explained by a simple linear model. An efficient Markov chain
Monte Carlo sampling scheme is used to account for the uncertainty in
all the model parameters. We tested the proposed model against several
alternatives and it outperformed the other linear calibration models,
especially when there were spatial effects, multicollinearity and the
training set size was small. 







