---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-08-04
modified: 2017-08-04
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #22

* Tracking fertiliser and soil nitrogen in irrigated cotton: uptake, losses and the soil N stock
* Applying regularized logistic regression (RLR) for the discrimination of sediment facies in reservoirs based on composite fingerprints.
* Multivariate Copula Analysis Toolbox (MvCAT): Describing dependence and underlying uncertainty using a Bayesian framework
* Comparison of Vis-NIR on in situ, intact core and dried, sieved soil to estimate clay content at field to regional scales
* A pragmatic, automated approach for retroactive calibration of soil moisture sensors using a two-step, soil-specific correction
* Nonlinear parametric modelling to study how soil properties affect crop yields and NDVI
* An adaptive approach for UAV-based pesticide spraying in dynamic environments
* Extracting the intertidal extent and topography of the Australian coastline from a 28 year time series of Landsat observations
* Establishment of critical limits of indicators and indices of soil quality in rice-rice cropping systems under different soil orders
* Accounting for taxonomic distance in accuracy assessment of soil class predictions

















<!--more-->

### Tracking fertiliser and soil nitrogen in irrigated cotton: uptake, losses and the soil N stock

Authors:
Macdonald, BCT; Chang, YF; Nadelko, A; Tuomi, S; Glover, M

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 55 (3):264-272; 2017 

Abstract:
This paper explores the importance of the N loss pathways relative to
the immobilisation and soil mineral N supply during a cotton season.
Despite using an agronomic practice of splitting urea application to
reduce losses and an optimal rate (232kg urea-N ha(-1)) for the
experiment, the average fertiliser recovery was 32%, which indicates
that soil N mineralisation is a key source of N for irrigated cotton
production systems. A large amount of the fertiliser (62kgNha(-1)) was
immobilised in the soil at the end of the season and during the season
the soil supplied 159kgNha(-1) to the plant via mineralisation. During
the season, large N losses occurred from the field via the atmospheric,
deep drainage and surface run-off pathways (143kgNha(-1)). The losses
occurred directly after fertilisation, predominantly at the start of the
season when the majority of the urea fertiliser was applied (180kg
urea-N ha(-1)). This indicates that the form, placement and timing of
the fertiliser did not synchronise with soil and crop N dynamics and
irrigation practice. Over the course of the measurement season, based on
the N inputs, losses and storage budget, a 42kgNha(-1) soil deficit was
observed. Further longer term work is required to quantify the magnitude
and significance of the soil N stock across different systems.


### Applying regularized logistic regression (RLR) for the discrimination of sediment facies in reservoirs based on composite fingerprints

Authors:
Reinwarth, B; Miller, JK; Glotzbach, C; Rowntree, KM; Baade, J

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 17 (6):1777-1795; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Soils and sediments can be distinguished based on "composite
fingerprints", i.e., sets of physical and chemical properties that are
suitable for discrimination. At present, statistical stepwise variable
selection methods are frequently applied to identify composite
fingerprints, although they have been seriously criticized. Here, we
test regularized logistic regression (RLR) as an alternative approach in
the context of a reservoir siltation study where the post-dam facies is
to be distinguished from the pre-dam facies.The pre- and post-dam facies
of four reservoirs located in the Kruger National Park were examined
with respect to grain size composition, color, and content of
calcium-lactate leachable phosphorus (P (CAL)). A composite fingerprint
was identified applying RLR to training data. The fitted regression
model was used for the classification of samples not involved in the
training dataset. For comparison, variable selection was performed with
stepwise discriminant function analysis (DFA) and samples were
classified by applying linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Both
approaches were validated by comparing field interpretation and
classification results. The analysis was extended based on Monte Carlo
simulations and synthetic datasets to quantify uncertainties and to
enhance the method comparison.RLR and stepwise DFA identify grain size
parameters and P (CAL) content to be particularly useful for the facies
discrimination. Neglecting and taking into account a potential sampling
bias, both approaches lead to <= 3 and 5% misclassifications,
respectively. RLR outperforms stepwise DFA/LDA in Monte Carlo
simulations, although misclassification rates do not significantly
differ (p = 0.84). RLR uses on average 12% less fingerprint properties.
Moreover, RLR-derived probabilities of group membership represent a more
reliable measure for classification conclusiveness than probabilities
calculated from LDA, which is evident in significantly lower (p < 0.001)
probability residuals for misclassified samples. Stepwise DFA/LDA
reveals lower misclassification rates than RLR when data fulfill
multivariate normality in each group and equal within-group covariance
matrices.RLR is an innovative tool for the discrimination of sediment
facies in reservoirs and, more generally, for studies requiring the
discrimination of soils and sediments. Although stepwise procedures will
in practice often perform similarly well, we discourage their use for
the identification of composite fingerprints due to the risk of
suboptimal variable selection involving variables with spurious
discriminatory power.

### Multivariate Copula Analysis Toolbox (MvCAT): Describing dependence and underlying uncertainty using a Bayesian framework

Authors:
Sadegh, M; Ragno, E; AghaKouchak, A

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (6):5166-5183; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
We present a newly developed Multivariate Copula Analysis Toolbox
(MvCAT) which includes a wide range of copula families with different
levels of complexity. MvCAT employs a Bayesian framework with a
residual-based Gaussian likelihood function for inferring copula
parameters and estimating the underlying uncertainties. The contribution
of this paper is threefold: (a) providing a Bayesian framework to
approximate the predictive uncertainties of fitted copulas, (b)
introducing a hybrid-evolution Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approach
designed for numerical estimation of the posterior distribution of
copula parameters, and (c) enabling the community to explore a wide
range of copulas and evaluate them relative to the fitting
uncertainties. We show that the commonly used local optimization methods
for copula parameter estimation often get trapped in local minima. The
proposed method, however, addresses this limitation and improves
describing the dependence structure. MvCAT also enables evaluation of
uncertainties relative to the length of record, which is fundamental to
a wide range of applications such as multivariate frequency analysis.

### Comparison of Vis-NIR on in situ, intact core and dried, sieved soil to estimate clay content at field to regional scales

Authors:
Poggio, M; Brown, DJ; Bricklemyer, RS

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (4):434-448; JUL 2017 

Abstract:
We evaluated the in situ performance of a newly designed visible and
near-infrared (Vis-NIR) penetrometer to predict clay content for 10
fields, 151 profile locations and 485 samples that span four orders of
the USDA Soil Taxonomy across the Pacific Northwest region of the USA.
The clay mineralogy of the soil families is mixed and heterogeneous. To
minimize the effects of soil moisture, in situ Vis-NIR measurements were
taken during the summer in a Mediterranean climate when most soil is at
or near wilting point. Partial least squares regression (PLSR) and
leave-one-core-out cross-validation were used to assess the different
soil Vis-NIR measurements: (i) standard error of prediction (SEP) = 5.7,
residual product differential (RPD) = 1.69 for in situ, (ii) SEP = 5.3,
RPD = 1.83 for laboratory measurements of intact cores and (iii) SEP =
4.7, RPD = 2.0 for laboratory measurements of dried, sieved soil. The
two primary factors contributing to larger in situ errors of prediction
relative to laboratory-based measurements of dried, sieved soil were (i)
scanning an intact soil surface at field moisture compared with dried,
sieved-homogenized soil and (ii) problems with instrument drift and
referencing in the field. For four of the 10 fields with similar loess
soil and 24 cores per field, we found that for all soil preparations (in
situ, intact core and dried, sieved) field-specific calibrations (SEP =
5.1, RPD = 1.29 for in situ; SEP = 3.3, RPD = 2.0 for dried, sieved
samples) out-performed both a single calibration for the four fields and
a calibration that included all 10 fields in this study. More research
is required to understand better the effects of examining intact rather
than crushed-sieved soil material, a potentially important factor for in
situ spectroscopy. In situ predictions could probably be improved with a
more stable and internally referenced field spectrometer, but even with
these challenges the results show that penetrometer-derived in situ
spectroscopy can be used to map the variation in soil profile clay
content semi-quantitatively.

### A pragmatic, automated approach for retroactive calibration of soil moisture sensors using a two-step, soil-specific correction

Authors:
Gasch, CK; Brown, DJ; Brooks, ES; Yourek, M; Poggio, M; Cobos, DR;
Campbell, CS

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 137 29-40; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Soil moisture sensors are increasingly deployed in sensor networks for
both agronomic research and precision agriculture. Soil-specific
calibration improves the accuracy of soil water content sensors, but
laboratory calibration of individual sensors is not practical for
networks installed across heterogeneous settings. Using daily water
content readings collected from a sensor network (42 locations x 5
depths = 210 sensors) installed at the Cook Agronomy Farm (CAF) near
Pullman, Washington, we developed an automated calibration approach that
can be applied to individual sensors after installation. As a first
step, we converted sensor-based estimates of apparent dielectric
permittivity to volumetric water content using three different
calibration equations (Topp equation, CAF laboratory calibration, and
the complex refractive index model, or CRIM). In a second,
"re-calibration" step, we used two pedotransfer functions based upon
particle size fractions and/or bulk density to estimate water content at
wilting point, field capacity, and saturation at each sensor insertion
point. Using an automated routine, we extracted the same three reference
points, when present, from each sensor's record, and then bias corrected
and re-scaled the sensor data to match the estimated reference points.
Based on validation with field-collected cores, the Topp equation
provided the most accurate calibration with an RMSE of 0.074 m(3) m(-3),
but automated re-calibration with a local pedotransfer function
outperformed any of the calibrations alone, yielding a network-wide RMSE
of 0.055 m(3) m(-3). The initial calibration equation used in the first
step was irrelevant when the re-calibration was applied. After
correcting for the reference core measurement error of 0.026 m(3) m(-3)
used for calibration and validation, the error of the sensors alone
(RMSEadj) was computed as 0.049 m(3) m(-3). Sixty-five percent of
individual sensors exhibited re calibration errors less than or equal to
the network RMSEadj. The incorporation of soil physical information at
sensor installation sites, applied retroactively via an automated
routine to in situ soil water content sensors, substantially improved
network sensor accuracy.

### Nonlinear parametric modelling to study how soil properties affect crop yields and NDVI

Authors:
Whetton, R; Zhao, YF; Shaddad, S; Mouazen, AM

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 138 127-136; JUN 1 2017 

Abstract:
This paper explores the use of a novel nonlinear parametric modelling
technique based on a Volterra Non-linear Regressive with eXogenous
inputs (VNRX) method to quantify the individual, interaction and overall
contributions of six soil properties on crop yield and normalised
difference vegetation index (NDVI). The proposed technique has been
applied on high sampling resolution data of soil total nitrogen (TN) in
%, total carbon (TC) in %, potassium (K) in cmol kg(-1), pH, phosphorous
(P) in mg kg-I and moisture content (MC) in %, collected with an on-line
visible and near infrared (VIS-NIR) spectroscopy sensor from a 18 ha
field in Bedfordshire, UK over 2013 (wheat) and 2015 (spring barley)
cropping seasons. The online soil data were first subjected to a raster
analysis to produce a common 5 m by 5 m grid, before they were used as
inputs into the VNRX model, whereas crop yield and NDVI represented
system outputs. Results revealed that the largest contributions commonly
observed for both yield and NDVI were from K, P and TC. The highest sum
of the error reduction ratio (SERR) of 48.59% was calculated with the
VNRX model for NDVI, which was in line with the highest correlation
coefficient (r) of 0.71 found between measured and predicted NDVI.
However, on-line measured soil properties led to larger contributions to
early measured NDVI than to a late measurement in the growing season.
The performance of the VNRX model was better for NDVI than for yield,
which was attributed to the exclusion of the influence of crop diseases,
appearing at late growing stages. It was recommended to adopt the VNRX
method for quantifying the contribution of on-line collected soil
properties to crop NDVI and yield. However, it is important for future
work to include additional soil properties and to account for other
factors affecting crop growth and yield, to improve the performance of
the VNRX model.


### An adaptive approach for UAV-based pesticide spraying in dynamic environments

Authors:
Faical, BS; Freitas, H; Gomes, PH; Mano, LY; Pessin, G; de Carvalho,
ACPLF; Krishnamachari, B; Ueyama, J

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 138 210-223; JUN 1 2017 

Abstract:
Agricultural production has become a key factor for the stability of the
world economy. The use of pesticides provides a more favorable
environment for the crops in agricultural production. However, the
uncontrolled and inappropriate use of pesticides affect the environment
by polluting preserved areas and damaging ecosystems. In the precision
agriculture literature, several authors have proposed solutions based on
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) for
developing spraying processes that are safer and more precise than the
use of manned agricultural aircraft. However, the static configuration
usually adopted in these proposals makes them inefficient in
environments with changing weather conditions (e.g. sudden changes of
wind speed and direction). To overcome this deficiency, this paper
proposes a computer-based system that is able to autonomously adapt the
UAV control rules, while keeping precise pesticide deposition on the
target fields. Different versions of the proposal, with autonomously
route adaptation metaheuristics based on Genetic Algorithms, Particle
Swarm Optimization, Simulated Annealing and Hill-Climbing for optimizing
the intensity of route changes are evaluated in this study.
Additionally, this study evaluates the use of a ground control station
and an embedded hardware to run the route adaptation metaheuristics.
Experimental results show that the proposed computer-based system
approach with autonomous route change metaheuristics provides more
precise changes in the UAV's flight route, with more accurate deposition
of the pesticide and less environmental damage.

### Extracting the intertidal extent and topography of the Australian coastline from a 28 year time series of Landsat observations

Authors:
Sagar, S; Roberts, D; Bala, B; Lymburner, L

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 195 153-169; JUN 15 2017 

Abstract:
The physical environment of the intertidal zone presents a number of
challenges which make traditional surveying methods difficult to
implement; whilst the acquisition cost of airborne elevation data can be
prohibitive beyond localised applications. Remote sensing data from
earth observation satellites has been well established as a method for
mapping the extent and elevation profile of the intertidal zone; however
the majority of these applications are local in nature, and based on
analysis of a limited number of individual image observations.In this
paper we outline an automated methodology to model the intertidal extent
and topography of the Australian coastline, that leverages a full time
series of Landsat observations from 1987 to 2015 managed in the
Australian Geoscience Data Cube (AGDC). Our approach reframes the
analysis from time of acquisition into the tidal domain through the use
of a continental scale tidal model, combined with a median pixel
compositing of Normalised Difference Water Index (NDWI) stacks, to
robustly estimate the tidal extent and elevation profile across the
observed tidal range. We demonstrate the ability of a median-based
compositing approach to deal effectively with data quality, modelling
outliers and other issues that commonly affect single scene
methodologies. Our new framework enables us to produce a
continental-scale intertidal model, detailing intertidal zone topography
at a 25 m spatial scale.We then demonstrate the potential of the
modelling framework to derive digital elevation data based on tidal
model attribution, validating our models against in-situ GPS
observations, before discussing issues that must be addressed to move
this capability to a continental scale. The ability of the model to
examine coastal stability is introduced, in the context of the
conceptual reframing of the data into the tidal domain, with a view to
furthering this application in future versions of the model.

### Establishment of critical limits of indicators and indices of soil quality in rice-rice cropping systems under different soil orders

Authors:
Biswas, S; Hazra, GC; Purakayastha, TJ; Saha, N; Mitran, T; Roy, SS;
Basak, N; Mandal, B

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 292 34-48; APR 15 2017 

Abstract:
Rice-rice is one of the major cropping systems in Indo-Gangetic Plains
(IGP) of South Asia. Assessment of soil quality and identification of
key indicators with their critical limits are very much important for
maintaining normal functioning of the soil and productivity of crops,
particularly of wet land rice. The present investigation was undertaken
to identify sensitive soil quality indicators and to develop soil
quality indices and establishment of their critical limits in
Inceptisols, Entisols and Alfisols collected from farmers' fields with
long-term rice-rice cropping system in sub-tropical India. The soil
samples were analysed for 37 physical, chemical and biological
properties. Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to create
minimum data set (MDS) of physical, chemical and biological indicators
which were encompassed to develop unified soil quality index (SQI) under
different soil orders. The SQI thus developed was highest in Inceptisols
(0.66 to 0.89) followed by Entisols (0.23 to 0.76) and Alfisols (0.37 to
0.60). The upper and lower critical limits for key indicators as well as
SQI were determined using scattered plot technique involving relative
yields of rice (RY) and different soil quality indicators as well as SQI
The critical limit equivalent to 80% and 40% of relative yield were
treated as upper and lower critical limits of selected key indicators
and SQI. The adequacy classes for each of selected key indicator as a
function of relative yield of rice were established based on the
following criteria: <40% low, 40-80% moderate and >80% adequate. The
upper and lower critical limits of the indicators selected under
rice-rice cropping systems in Inceptisols were available Zn (1.7 and 1.2
mg kg(-1)), bulk density (1.2 and 1.6 Mg m(-3)),beta-glucosidase
activity (68 and 18 mu g p-nitrophenol g(-1) soil h(-1)) and urease
activity (64 and 24 pg NH4 g(-1) soil 2 h(-1)), in Entisols were
dehydrogenase activity (93 and 12 mu g TPF g(-1) soil 24 h(-1)),
aggregate stability (66 and 11%), total organic C (11.6 and 10.7 g
kg(-1)) and pHw (5.7 and 53) and in Alfisols were oxidisable organic C
(7.8 and 5.0 g kg(-1)),beta-glucosidase activity (51 and 15 mu g
p-nitrophenol g(-1) soil h(-1)), aggregate stability (52 and 19%) and
mineralizable C (273 and 173 mu g Cg(-1) soil), respectively. The upper
and lower critical limits established for key soil quality indicators as
well as soil quality indices for Inceptisols (0.85 and 0.56), Entisols
(0.23 and 0.65) and Alfisols (0.37 and 0.56) could periodically be
judged for maintaining/enhancing soil quality and yield sustainability
through the employment of optimum management practices in rice-rice
cropping systems of subtropical India. 

### Accounting for taxonomic distance in accuracy assessment of soil class predictions

Authors:
Rossiter, DG; Zeng, R; Zhang, GL

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 292 118-127; APR 15 2017 

Abstract:
Evaluating the accuracy of allocation to classes in monothetic
hierarchical soil classification systems, including the World Reference
Base for Soil Classification, US Soil Taxonomy, and Chinese Soil
Taxonomy, is poorly-served by binomial methods correctlincorrect
allocation per evaluation observation), since some errors are more
serious than others in terms of soil properties, map use, pedogenesis,
and ease of mapping. Instead, evaluations should account for the
taxonomic distance between classes, expressed as class similarities,
giving partial credit to some incorrect allocations. These can then be
used in weighted accuracy measures, either direct measures of agreement
or measures that account for chance agreement, such as the tau index.
Similarities can be determined in one of four ways: (1) by the expert
opinion of a soil classification specialist; (2) by the distance between
classes in a numerical taxonomy assessment; (3) by distance within a
taxonomic hierarchy; or (4) by an error loss function. Expert opinion
can be from the point of view of the map user, to assess map utility, or
map producer, to assess mapping skill. Examples are given of determining
similarity between a subset of Chinese Soil Taxonomy classes by expert
opinion and by numerical taxonomy from soil spectra, and then using
these for weighted accuracy assessment. A method for assessing the
accuracy of probabilistic predictions of several classes at a location
is also proposed









