---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-05-04
modified: 2017-05-04
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #14

<!--more-->




### Improving the mapping of crop types in the Midwestern US by fusing Landsat and MODIS satellite data

Authors:
Zhu, LK; Radeloff, VC; Ives, AR

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 58 1-11; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Mapping crop types is of great importance for assessing agricultural
production, land-use patterns, and the environmental effects of
agriculture. Indeed, both radiometric and spatial resolution of
Landsat's sensors images are optimized for cropland monitoring. However,
accurate mapping of crop types requires frequent cloud-free images
during the growing season, which are often not available, and this
raises the question of whether Landsat data can be combined with data
from other satellites. Here, our goal is to evaluate to what degree
fusing Landsat with MODIS Nadir Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution
Function (BRDF)-Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR) data can improve crop-type
classification. Choosing either one or two images from all cloud-free
Landsat observations available for the Arlington Agricultural Research
Station area in Wisconsin from 2010 to 2014, we generated 87
combinations of images, and used each combination as input into the
Spatial and Temporal Adaptive Reflectance Fusion Model (STARFM)
algorithm to predict Landsat-like images at the nominal dates of each
8-day MODIS NBAR product. Both the original Landsat and STARFM-predicted
images were then classified with a support vector machine (SVM), and we
compared the classification errors of three scenarios: 1) classifying
the one or two original Landsat images of each combination only, 2)
classifying the one or two original Landsat images plus all
STARFM-predicted images, and 3) classifying the one or two original
Landsat images together with STARFM-predicted images for key dates. Our
results indicated that using two Landsat images as the input of STARFM
did not significantly improve the STARFM predictions compared to using
only one, and predictions using Landsat images between July and August
as input were most accurate. Including all STARFM-predicted images
together with the Landsat images significantly increased average
classification error by 4% points (from 21% to 25%) compared to using
only Landsat images. However, incorporating only STARFM-predicted images
for key dates decreased average classification error by 2% points (from
21% to 19%) compared to using only Landsat images. In particular, if
only a single Landsat image was available, adding STARFM predictions for
key dates significantly decreased the average classification error by 4
percentage points from 30% to 26% (p < 0.05). We conclude that adding
STARFM-predicted images can be effective for improving crop-type
classification when only limited Landsat observations are available, but
carefully selecting images from a full set of STARFM predictions is
crucial. We developed an approach to identify the optimal subsets of all
STARFM predictions, which gives an alternative method of feature
selection for future research. 


### The changing pore size distribution of swelling and shrinking soil revealed by nuclear magnetic resonance relaxometry

Authors:
Shi, FG; Zhang, CZ; Zhang, JB; Zhang, XN; Yao, J

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 17 (1):61-69; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Purpose Determining soil pore size distribution is difficult and
time-consuming using traditional methods. Additionally, for swelling and
shrinking soil, the specific volume of soil changes with soil moisture
conditions. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) relaxometry allows
observation of pore size distribution changes during the process of
dehydration and soil shrinkage.Materials and methods Naturally
structured soil cores of a Vertisol with characteristic swelling and
shrinking behavior were collected from the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain of
China. The samples were saturated with water and dehydrated gradually at
room temperature and relaxometry tests conducted at different moisture
contents as they air-dried. Then, the soil cores were oven-dried at 105
degrees C and saturated with n-octane, which prevented clay swelling.
The pore size distribution of soil cores at the end of the shrinking
process was determined through the description of n-octane-filled pores.
The shrinkage characteristic curves were determined as naturally
structured soil cores were air-dried from moisture content at full
expansion to constant volume, indicating the relationship between the
volume of bulk soil and moisture content.Results and discussion The
transverse relaxation time (T-2) distribution deduced from NMR
relaxometry gives a good description of the size distribution of pores
filled with protons (contained in water or n-octane). The T-2
distribution curves of soil cores at saturation were trimodal, due to
the presence of interlayer, interparticular, and interaggregate pores.
Combined with the shrinkage characteristic curves, it was deduced that
the structural pores were evacuated during the structural shrinkage
period. The normal and residual shrinkage was accompanied by the
narrowing and closure of the interlayer spaces. During the residual
shrinkage period, the frame structure of the soil particles prevented
further shrinkage of the bulk soil. The shrinkage process was
accompanied by the closure of interlayer spaces and the formation of
large cracks between aggregates.Conclusions H-1 NMR relaxometry was
especially suited to studying the changing pore size distribution of
swelling and shrinking soils. When the soil cores began shrinking,
almost all remaining water was retained in interlayer spaces. The volume
change of the interlayer space was the main cause of swelling and
shrinking. The swelling limit could be estimated from the T-2
distributions of soils at full expansion.


### Assessing sampling designs for determining fertilizer practice from yield data

Authors:
Muhammed, SE; Marchant, BP; Webster, R; Whitmore, AP; Dailey, G; Milne,
AE

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 135 163-174; APR 1 2017 

Abstract:
Many farmers sample their soil to measure the concentrations of plant
nutrients, so as to decide how much fertilizer to apply. Now that
fertilizer can be applied at variable rates farmers want to know whether
maps of nutrient concentration made from grid samples or of field
subdivisions (zones within their fields) are merited: do such maps lead
to greater profit than would a single measurement on a bulked sample for
each field when all costs are taken into account? We have examined the
merits of grid-based and zone-based sampling strategies over single
field-based averages using continuous spatial data on wheat yields at
harvest in six fields in southern England and simulated concentrations
of phosphorus (P) in the soil. We have taken into account current prices
of wheat, P fertilizer and sampling and laboratory analysis. Variograms
of yield provide guides for sampling. We show that where variograms have
large variances and long effective ranges grid-sampling and mapping are
feasible and have large probabilities of being cost-effective. Where
effective ranges are short, sampling must be dense to reveal the spatial
variation and be expensive, and variable-rate application of fertilizer
is likely to be impracticable and almost certainly not cost-effective.
We found zone-based sampling was less likely to be cost effective in a
similar situation when the management zones were poorly correlated to P
concentrations.

### Modelling the passive microwave signature from land surfaces: A review of recent results and application to the L-band SMOS & SMAP soil moisture retrieval algorithms

Authors:
Wigneron, JP; Jackson, TJ; O'Neill, P; De Lannoy, G; de Rosnay, P;
Walker, JP; Ferrazzoli, P; Mironov, V; Bircher, S; Grant, JP; Kurum, M;
Schwank, M; Munoz-Sabater, J; Das, N; Royer, A; Al-Yaari, A; Al Bitar,
A; Fernandez-Moran, R; Lawrence, H; Mialon, A; Parrens, M; Richaume, P;
Delwart, S; Kerr, Y

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 192 238-262; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Two passive microwave missions are currently operating at L-band to
monitor surface soil moisture (SM) over continental surfaces. The SMOS
sensor, based on an innovative interferometric technology enabling
multi-angular signatures of surfaces to be measured, was launched in
November 2009. The SMAP sensor, based on a large mesh reflector 6 m in
diameter providing a conically scanning antenna beam with a surface
incidence angle of 40, was launched in January of 2015. Over the last
decade, an intense scientific activity has focused on the development of
the SM retrieval algorithms for the two missions. This activity has
relied on many field (mainly tower-based) and airborne experimental
campaigns, and since 2010-2011, on the SMOS and Aquarius space-borne
L-band observations. It has relied too on the use of numerical, physical
and semi-empirical models to simulate the microwave brightness
temperature of natural scenes for a variety of scenarios in terms of
system configurations (polarization, incidence angle) and soil,
vegetation and climate conditions. Key components of the inversion
models have been evaluated and new parameterizations of the effects of
the surface temperature, soil roughness, soil permittivity, and
vegetation extinction and scattering have been developed. Among others,
global maps of select radiative transfer parameters have been estimated
very recently. Based on this intense activity, improvements of the SMOS
and SMAP SM inversion algorithms have been proposed. Some of them have
already been implemented, whereas others are currently being
investigated. In this paper, we present a review of the significant
progress which has been made over the last decade in this field of
research with a focus on L-band, and a discussion on possible
applications to the SMOS and SMAP soil moisture retrieval approaches.


### Water Retention and Preferential States of Soil Moisture in a Cultivated Vertisol

Authors:
Vanderlinden, K; Pachepsky, YA; Pederera-Parrilla, A; Martnez, G;
Espejo-Perez, AJ; Perea, F; Giraldez, JV

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (1):1-9; JAN-FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Vertisols are well suited for rainfed agriculture in water-limited
environments as a result of their unique water transfer and retention
characteristics. Despite their importance, the agro-hydrological
behavior of these soils under seasonally dry climates is not yet fully
understood. We collected water retention data for a Vertisol, measured
from saturation to oven dryness on 27 undisturbed topsoil (0-0.05 m)
samples from an experimental field in southcentral Spain and related
this information to the occurrence of field-observed preferential soil
moisture states. A continuous function was fitted to the mean
gravimetric water retention data, circle minus, consisting of the sum of
a double exponential model and the Groenevelt and Grant model. An
inflection point at pressure head |h| = 1.1 X 10(5) cm, circle minus =
0.12 kg kg(- 1), and an equivalent pore radius, delta = 14 nm, was
interpreted as the boundary between the clay inter-and intra-aggregate
pore spaces, corresponding with the transition from the intermediate to
the dry field soil moisture state. The mode of the textural pore space
(|h| = 7.3 X 10(3) cm, circle minus = 0.21 kg kg(- 1), and delta = 200
nm) matched the transition from the wet to the intermediate field soil
moisture state. We related these characteristics of the soil water
retention curve with the spatiotemporal soil moisture dynamics and
patterns observed in the field, characterized by fast transitions
between preferential soil moisture states. The proposed framework is
suitable for comparing the effects of different soil management
strategies on the agro-hydrological performance of Vertisols.






