---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-08-14
modified: 2017-08-14
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #24

* Major agricultural changes required to mitigate phosphorus losses under climate change
* The optical trapezoid model: A novel approach to remote sensing of soil moisture applied to Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations.
* An expert system model for mapping tropical wetlands and peatlands reveals South America as the largest contributor
* Soil carbon sequestration due to post-Soviet cropland abandonment: estimates from a large-scale soil organic carbon field inventory
* Validation of the ANOCOVA model for regional-scale ECa to ECe calibration
* Predicting soil workability and fragmentation in tillage: a review
* Soil health - What should the doctor order?
* Soil protection for a sustainable future: options for a soil monitoring network for Ireland












<!--more-->

### Major agricultural changes required to mitigate phosphorus losses under climate change

Authors:
Ockenden, MC; Hollaway, MJ; Beven, KJ; Collins, AL; Evans, R; Falloon,
PD; Forber, KJ; Hiscock, KM; Kahana, R; Macleod, CJA; Tych, W;
Villamizar, ML; Wearing, C; Withers, PJA; Zhou, JG; Barker, PA; Burke,
S; Freer, JE; Johnes, PJ; Snell, MA; Surridge, BWJ; Haygarth, PM

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 161-161; JUL 31 2017 

Abstract:
Phosphorus losses from land to water will be impacted by climate change
and land management for food production, with detrimental impacts on
aquatic ecosystems. Here we use a unique combination of methods to
evaluate the impact of projected climate change on future phosphorus
transfers, and to assess what scale of agricultural change would be
needed to mitigate these transfers. We combine novel high-frequency
phosphorus flux data from three representative catchments across the UK,
a new high-spatial resolution climate model, uncertainty estimates from
an ensemble of future climate simulations, two phosphorus transfer
models of contrasting complexity and a simplified representation of the
potential intensification of agriculture based on expert elicitation
from land managers. We show that the effect of climate change on average
winter phosphorus loads (predicted increase up to 30% by 2050s) will be
limited only by large-scale agricultural changes (e.g., 20-80% reduction
in phosphorus inputs).


### The optical trapezoid model: A novel approach to remote sensing of soil moisture applied to Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations

Authors:
Sadeghi, M; Babaeian, E; Tuller, M; Jones, SB

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 52-68; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
The "trapezoid" or "triangle" model constitutes the most popular
approach to remote sensing (RS) of surface soil moisture based on
coupled thermal (Le., land surface temperature) and optical RS
observations. The model, hereinafter referred to as Thermal-OptiCal
TRAapezoid Model (TOTRAM), is based on interpretation of the pixel
distribution within the land surface temperature - vegetation index
(LST-VI) space. TOTRAM suffers from two inherent limitations. It is not
applicable to satellites that do not provide thermal data (e.g.,
Sentinel-2) and it requires parameterization for each individual
observation date. To overcome these restrictions we propose a novel
Optical TRApezoid Model (OPTRAM), which is based on the linear physical
relationship between soil moisture and shortwave infrared transformed
reflectance (SIR) and is parameterized based on the pixel distribution
within the SIR-VI space. The OPTRAM-based surface soil moisture
estimates derived from Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations for the
Walnut Gulch and Little Washita watersheds were compared with ground
truth soil moisture data. Results indicate that the prediction
accuracies of OPTRAM and TOTRAM are comparable, with OPTRAM only
requiring observations in the optical electromagnetic frequency domain.
The volumetric moisture content estimation errors of both models were
below 0.04 cm(3) cm(-3) with local calibration and about 0.04-0.05 cm(3)
cm(-3) without calibration. We also demonstrate that OPTRAM only
requires a single universal parameterization for a given location, which
is a significant advancement that opens a new avenue for remote sensing
of soil moisture.

### An expert system model for mapping tropical wetlands and peatlands reveals South America as the largest contributor

Authors:
Gumbricht, T; Roman-Cuesta, RM; Verchot, L; Herold, M; Wittmann, F;
Householder, E; Herold, N; Murdiyarso, D

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (9):3581-3599; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
Wetlands are important providers of ecosystem services and key
regulators of climate change. They positively contribute to global
warming through their greenhouse gas emissions, and negatively through
the accumulation of organic material in histosols, particularly in
peatlands. Our understanding of wetlands' services is currently
constrained by limited knowledge on their distribution, extent, volume,
interannual flood variability and disturbance levels. We present an
expert system approach to estimate wetland and peatland areas, depths
and volumes, which relies on three biophysical indices related to
wetland and peat formation: (1) long-term water supply exceeding
atmospheric water demand; (2) annually or seasonally water-logged soils;
and (3) a geomorphological position where water is supplied and
retained. Tropical and subtropical wetlands estimates reach 4.7 million
km(2) (Mkm(2)). In line with current understanding, the American
continent is the major contributor (45%), and Brazil, with its Amazonian
interfluvial region, contains the largest tropical wetland area (800,720
km(2)). Our model suggests, however, unprecedented extents and volumes
of peatland in the tropics (1.7 Mkm(2) and 7,268 (6,076-7,368) km(3)),
which more than threefold current estimates. Unlike current
understanding, our estimates suggest that South America and not Asia
contributes the most to tropical peatland area and volume (ca. 44% for
both) partly related to some yet unaccounted extended deep deposits but
mainly to extended but shallow peat in the Amazon Basin. Brazil leads
the peatland area and volume contribution. Asia hosts 38% of both
tropical peat area and volume with Indonesia as the main regional
contributor and still the holder of the deepest and most extended peat
areas in the tropics. Africa hosts more peat than previously reported
but climatic and topographic contexts leave it as the least peat-forming
continent. Our results suggest large biases in our current understanding
of the distribution, area and volumes of tropical peat and their
continental contributions.

### Soil carbon sequestration due to post-Soviet cropland abandonment: estimates from a large-scale soil organic carbon field inventory

Authors:
Wertebach, TM; Holzel, N; Kampf, I; Yurtaev, A; Tupitsin, S; Kiehl, K;
Kamp, J; Kleinebecker, T

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (9):3729-3741; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
The break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991 triggered cropland abandonment
on a continental scale, which in turn led to carbon accumulation on
abandoned land across Eurasia. Previous studies have estimated carbon
accumulation rates across Russia based on large-scale modelling. Studies
that assess carbon sequestration on abandoned land based on robust field
sampling are rare. We investigated soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks
using a randomized sampling design along a climatic gradient from forest
steppe to Sub-Taiga in Western Siberia (Tyumen Province). In total, SOC
contents were sampled on 470 plots across different soil and land-use
types. The effect of land use on changes in SOC stock was evaluated, and
carbon sequestration rates were calculated for different age stages of
abandoned cropland. While land-use type had an effect on carbon
accumulation in the topsoil (0-5 cm), no independent land-use effects
were found for deeper SOC stocks. Topsoil carbon stocks of grasslands
and forests were significantly higher than those of soils managed for
crops and under abandoned cropland. SOC increased significantly with
time since abandonment. The average carbon sequestration rate for soils
of abandoned cropland was 0.66 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1) (1-20 years old, 0-5
cm soil depth), which is at the lower end of published estimates for
Russia and Siberia. There was a tendency towards SOC saturation on
abandoned land as sequestration rates were much higher for recently
abandoned (1-10 years old, 1.04 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1)) compared to earlier
abandoned crop fields (11-20 years old, 0.26 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1)). Our
study confirms the global significance of abandoned cropland in Russia
for carbon sequestration. Our findings also suggest that robust regional
surveys based on a large number of samples advance model-based
continent-wide SOC prediction.

### Validation of the ANOCOVA model for regional-scale ECa to ECe calibration

Authors:
Corwin, DL; Lesch, SM

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 33 (2):178-190; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Two approaches have emerged as the preferred means for assessing
salinity at regional scale: (i) vegetative indices from satellite
imagery (e.g., MODIS enhanced vegetative index, NDVI) and (ii) analysis
of covariance (ANOCOVA) calibration of apparent soil electrical
conductivity (ECa) to salinity. The later approach is most recent and
least extensively validated. It is the objective of this study to
provide extensive validation of the ANOCOVA approach. The validation
comprised 77 fields in California's Coachella Valley, ranging from 1.25
to 30.0 ha in size with an average size of 12.8 ha. Mobile
electromagnetic induction (EMI) equipment surveyed the fields obtaining
geospatial measurements of ECa. Soil sample sites selected following
ECa-directed soil sampling protocols characterized the range and spatial
variation in ECa across the field. From the data, a regional ANOCOVA
model was developed. The regional ANOCOVA model successfully reduced
cross-validated, average log salinity prediction error (variance)
estimate by more than 30% across the 77 fields and improved the
depth-averaged prediction accuracy in 58 of the 77 fields. The results
show that the ANOCOVA modelling approach improves soil salinity
predictions from EMI signal data in most of the surveys conducted,
particularly fields where only a limited number of calibration sampling
locations were available. The establishment of ANOCOVA models at each
depth increment for a representative set of fields within a
regional-scale study area provides slope coefficients applicable to all
future fields within the region, significantly reducing ground-truth
soil samples at future fields.

### Predicting soil workability and fragmentation in tillage: a review

Authors:
Obour, PB; Lamande, M; Edwards, G; Sorensen, CG; Munkholm, LJ

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 33 (2):288-298; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Soil workability and friability are required parameters to consider when
creating suitable seedbeds for crop establishment and growth. Knowledge
of soil workability is important for scheduling tillage operations and
for reducing the risk of tillage-induced structural degradation of
soils. A reliable evaluation of soil workability implies a distinctive
definition of the critical water content (wet and dry limits) for
tillage. In this review, we provide a comprehensive assessment of the
methods for determining soil workability, and the effects of soil
properties and tillage systems on soil workability and fragmentation.
The strengths and limitations of the different methods for evaluating
the water content for soil workability, such as the plastic limit, soil
water retention curve (SWRC), standard Proctor compaction test, field
assessment, moisture-pressure-volume diagram, air permeability and
drop-shatter tests are discussed. Our review reveals that there is
limited information on the dry limit and the range of water content for
soil workability for different textured soils. We identify the need for
further research to evaluate soil workability on undisturbed soils using
a combination of SWRC and the drop-shatter tests or tensile strength;
(i) to quantify the effects of soil texture, organic matter and
compaction on soil workability; and (ii) to compare soil water content
for workability in the field with theoretical soil workability, thereby
improving the prediction of soil workability as part of a decision
support system for tillage operations.

### Soil health - What should the doctor order?

Authors:
Wood, M; Litterick, AM

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 33 (2):339-345; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
The concept of soil health has been extensively reviewed in the
scientific literature, but there is only patchy and inconsistent
information available to farmers and growers who are concerned about the
declining condition of their soils and are looking for appropriate test
methods and management interventions to help reverse it. Although there
are well-established laboratory methods for soil chemical analysis, and
a range of laboratory and field methods for measuring soil physical
properties, only now are methods starting to emerge for soil biological
analysis. This study provides an overview of the methods that are
currently available commercially (or are close to commercialization) for
farmers and growers in the UK. We examine the science underpinning the
methods, the value of the information provided and how farmers and
advisors can use results from such assessments for informed
decision-making in relation to soil management.

### Soil protection for a sustainable future: options for a soil monitoring network for Ireland

Authors:
O'Sullivan, L; Bampa, F; Knights, K; Creamer, RE

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 33 (2):346-363; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
The increased recognition of the importance of soil is reflected in the
UN Post-2015 Development Agenda with sustainable development goals that
directly and indirectly relate to soil quality and protection. Despite a
lack of legally binding legislation for soil protection, the European
Commission remains committed to the objective of soil protection.
However, the achievement of a legally binding framework for soil
protection relies on the implementation of a soil monitoring network
(SMN) that can detect changes to soil quality over time. As
beneficiaries do not pay for the provision of soil information, the
options for soil monitoring are limited. The use of existing data sets
should be considered first. Using Ireland as an example, this research
explored the opportunities for a SMN for Ireland considering three
existing national data sets. The options for a SMN are considered in
terms of their spatial and stratified distribution, the parameters to be
measured and an economic analysis of the options proposed. This research
finds that for Ireland, either a 10 or a 16 km(2) grid interval
stratified by land use and drainage class offers the best potential in
relation to the spatial distribution of existing data sets to reflect
local data at a national level. With existing data, the stratified SIS
data using the 16 km(2) grid offers the best value for money, with
baseline costs for analysis, excluding field costs, of between (sic)706
481 and (sic)2.8 million. Acknowledging the impossibility of measuring
all parameters with ideal frequency, this study proposes a two-tier
system for optimized monitoring frequency. Parameters must anticipate
future policy requirements. Finally, the implementation of a SMN must be
accompanied by standardized methods, defined thresholds and action
mandates to maintain soil quality within allowable limits.








