---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-08-01
modified: 2017-08-01
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #21

* Towards improved quality of soil morphology and analytical data in Australia: starting the discussion
* Rapid prediction of soil mineralogy using imaging spectroscopy
* Characteristics of Acoustic Emissions from Soil Subjected to Confined Uniaxial Compression
* Spatiotemporal Scaling of Vegetation Growth and Soil Formation: Explicit Predictions
* Decadal soil carbon accumulation across Tibetan permafrost regions
* Rapid estimation of cation exchange capacity from soil water content
* Comparative evaluation of relative calibration methods for DMSP/OLS nighttime lights
* Global bare ground gain from 2000 to 2012 using Landsat imagery









<!--more-->

### Towards improved quality of soil morphology and analytical data in Australia: starting the discussion

Authors:
Biggs, AJW; Searle, R

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 55 (4):309-317; 2017 

Abstract:
The development and implementation of a national data schema for soil
data in Australia over the last two decades, coupled with advances in
information technology, has led to the realisation of more comprehensive
state and national soil databases. This has facilitated increased access
to soil data for many purposes, including the creation of many digital
soil-mapping products, such as the Soil and Landscape Grid of Australia.
Consequently, users of soil data have a growing need for clarity
concerning the quality of the data; many new users have little
understanding of the varying quality of the data. To date, statements
about the quality of primary soil data have typically been qualitative
and/or judgemental rather than explicit. The consequences of
poor-quality primary data and of the lack of a coding system for data
quality are growing with increased usage and with demand for soil data
at the regional to national scale. Pillar 4 of the Global Soil
Partnership and the National Soil Research, Development and Extension
Strategy both identify the need to improve the quality of soil data.
Various international standards do exist with respect to the quality of
soil data but these tend to focus on general principles and
quality-assurance frameworks rather than the detail of describing data
quality. The aim of this paper is to stimulate a discussion in the
Australian soil science community on how to quantify and describe the
quality of primary soil data. We provide examples of the data quality
issues and propose a framework for structured data-quality checking
procedures and quality coding of soil morphological and analytical data
in Australia.

### Rapid prediction of soil mineralogy using imaging spectroscopy

Authors:
Omran, ESE

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (5):597-612; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Hyperspectral images provide rich spectral and spatially continuous
information that can be used for soil mineralogy discrimination. This
paper proposes a method to evaluate the feasibility of Hyperion image in
the rapid prediction of soil mineralogy. Four areas in Egypt were chosen
for the current study. Preprocessing of the Hyperion data was done
before applying the atmospheric correction. The minimum noise fraction
transformation was used to segregate noise in the data. Various
techniques were applied to the studied areas in which mixture tune
matched filtering gave good results in a prediction of the end-members.
Then, it employed to predict soil minerals in each cell using a spectral
unmixing method. Illite, chlorite, calcite, dolomite, kaolinite,
smectite, quartz, hematite, goethite, vermiculite, palygorskite and some
feldspar were identified. In addition, sand and limestone, calcite and
dolomite, and sand surface from similarly bright clouds can be
distinguished easily based on the proposed method. The soil minerals
obtained from X-ray diffraction analysis of the soil samples are in
conformity with spectrally dominant mineralogy from Hyperion data.
Different minerals can be identified using this method without any
knowledge of field spectra or any a priori field data, thus configuring
a "true" remote sensing method.

### Characteristics of Acoustic Emissions from Soil Subjected to Confined Uniaxial Compression

Authors:
Naderi-Boldaji, M; Bahrami, M; Keller, T; Or, D

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (7):NIL_38-NIL_49; JUL 2017 

Abstract:
Application of mechanical stresses to soil results in deformation,
micro-fracturing, particle motion, and liquid reconfiguration that may
release measurable amounts of stored elastic energy in the form of
acoustic emissions (AEs). This study aimed to systematically study AE
characteristics during confined uniaxial compression of soil samples and
link various AE parameters to soil deformation regimes. We hypothesized
that variations in AE characteristics could offer new insights into the
transition between elastic and plastic soil deformation and
noninvasively identify the onset of yield stress. We subjected soil
samples at known water contents to a loading-unloading-reloading cycle
under uniaxial compression using an oedometer coupled with an AE
monitoring system. The soil was a sandy loam equilibrated with two
initial gravimetric water contents (12 and 25%) and two initial bulk
densities (1.3 and 1.55 Mg m(-3)) for each water content. Observed AE
event numbers (hits) and their energy content (E) varied during stress
application to soil samples. Close agreement was found between soil
yield stress deduced from normalized cumulative AE parameters and
measured stress-void ratio curves (precompression stress, sigma(pc)) for
the dry soil; however, the yield stress deduced from AE parameters was
significantly larger than sigma(pc) for the wet soil. Swelling and
compression indices were strongly correlated to AE hits and E,
respectively. The preliminary results illustrate the potential of
monitoring passive AE during load application to characterize soil
mechanical parameters (potentially in situ). Nevertheless, additional
studies with controlled pore water pressure and a range of soil types
would be required to generalize these findings to offer a robust
AE-based method.

### Spatiotemporal Scaling of Vegetation Growth and Soil Formation: Explicit Predictions

Authors:
Hunt, AG

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (6):NIL_3-NIL_14; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
In a previous study, vegetation linear extent and soil depth as
functions of time were proposed to follow percolation-based scaling laws
of power-law form. Although the power-law exponents are specified by
theory, the fundamental length, x(0), and time, t(0), scales must be
generated from physical arguments. In principle, these length and time
scales can vary widely with climate, soil, and plant variables. In the
previous study, approximate values, microns and seconds, were proposed
for x(0) and t(0), based on typical soil flow rates, x(0)/t(0), under
saturated conditions, and the concept of a single pore having a diameter
measured in microns. But the focus here is on development of predictive
relationships for soil depth and vegetation linear extent as functions
of time and, thus, on guidance for choosing specific values for x(0) and
t(0). In the present study, it is argued that the relevant flow rate for
soil formation is net (deep) infiltration, whereas for vegetation
extent, the relevant flux must equate to transpiration. In vegetation,
linear extent refers (approximately) equivalently to plant height, or
root radial extent. Here root radial extent is taken as half the
diameter of the projected root system. Since the root radial extent and
the root biomass are by definition related through the root fractal
dimensionality, the proposed relevance of transpiration to root radial
extent implies a specific relationship between transpiration and root
productivity, a measure of the root biomass added in a year. When
above-ground and below-ground biomass are closely related, one can infer
a proportionality of net primary productivity to root biomass changes.
The general concepts are tested on large data-bases for the temporal
evolution of plant heights and soil depths, as well as the productivity
as a function of evapotranspiration and soil calcic and gypsic horizon
depths.

### Decadal soil carbon accumulation across Tibetan permafrost regions

Authors:
Ding, JZ; Chen, LY; Ji, CJ; Hugelius, G; Li, YN; Liu, L; Qin, SQ; Zhang,
BB; Yang, GB; Li, F; Fang, K; Chen, YL; Peng, YF; Zhao, X; He, HL;
Smith, P; Fang, JY; Yang, YH

Source:
*NATURE GEOSCIENCE*, 10 (6):420-+; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Permafrost soils store large amounts of carbon. Warming can result in
carbon release from thawing permafrost, but it can also lead to enhanced
primary production, which can increase soil carbon stocks. The balance
of these fluxes determines the nature of the permafrost feedback to
warming. Here we assessed decadal changes in soil organic carbon stocks
in the active layer-the uppermost 30 cm-of permafrost soils across
Tibetan alpine regions, based on repeated soil carbon measurements in
the early 2000s and 2010s at the same sites. We observed an overall
accumulation of soil organic carbon irrespective of vegetation type,
with a mean rate of 28.0 g Cm-2 yr(-1) across Tibetan permafrost
regions. This soil organic carbon accrual occurred only in the
subsurface soil, between depths of 10 and 30 cm, mainly induced by an
increase of soil organic carbon concentrations. We conclude that the
upper active layer of Tibetan alpine permafrost currently represents a
substantial regional soil carbon sink in a warming climate, implying
that carbon losses of deeper and older permafrost carbon might be offset
by increases in upper-active-layer soil organic carbon stocks, which
probably results from enhanced vegetation growth.

### Rapid estimation of cation exchange capacity from soil water content

Authors:
Arthur, E

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (3):365-373; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Estimates of cation exchange capacity (CEC) for soil or earth materials
are vital for several applications in agriculture and geotechnical
engineering. The time-consuming and laborious nature of standard methods
of CEC determination prompted the development of regression-based
techniques and more sophisticated methodologies, such as artificial
neural networks (ANNs), to estimate CEC from other soil properties (e.g.
clay, organic matter and pH). The present study proposes regression
relations for estimating CEC from soil water content at different
relative humidity (RH) values that range from 10 to 90% and considering
sorption hysteresis. For model development, water adsorption and
desorption isotherms were measured for 203 soil samples from different
parts of the world with a vapour sorption analyser within an RH range
from 3 to 93%. Regression models were developed for both adsorption and
desorption for nine RH values (10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90%).
For 35 independent soil samples, the models predicted CEC accurately
(root mean squared error (RMSE): adsorption= 2.47 (0.04) cmol(+) kg(-1);
desorption=2.52 (0.09) cmol(+) kg(-1)) with no clear effect of RH value
or sorption direction on the accuracy of prediction. The new models were
superior to three models from the literature based on clay, organic
matter and pH; the smallest RMSE from these models was 4.13 cmol(+)
kg(-1) for the same 35 soil samples. Furthermore, the water
sorption-based models performed better than literature models based on
data mining tools (ANNs, support vector machines) and visible near
infrared spectroscopy when standardized RMSE values were compared. Thus,
a simple measure of soil water content at a known RH can serve as an
accurate substitute for measuring soil CEC.

### Comparative evaluation of relative calibration methods for DMSP/OLS nighttime lights

Authors:
Pandey, B; Zhang, QL; Seto, KC

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 195 67-78; JUN 15 2017 

Abstract:
With over two decades of historical observations, DMSP/OLS nighttime
lights (NTL) are an invaluable asset for monitoring, characterizing, and
understanding human activity. Due to the lack of on-board calibration,
there are systematic biases in NTL data. Consequently, a key deterrent
to the use of the entire NTL archive is the difficulty in generating a
consistent NTL time series. Currently, there are a number of methods to
calibrate Nu. data in order to generate a consistent time series.
However, there is no systematic evaluation of the performances of these
calibration efforts. The purpose of this paper is to compare and
evaluate existing calibration methods and to provide guidance to NTL end
users on their relative strengths and weaknesses. We apply two widely
adopted criteria to assess the performance of the methods: a) systematic
bias minimization, and b) relation with ancillary socio-economic data on
economic activity and electricity consumption. Our results show that
global-scale calibration methods outperform regionally-based calibration
methods. Furthermore, inconsistencies, in the form of differences in
pixel values from two satellites of the same region and year, continue
to exist in NTL data even after the calibration methods are applied,
both across regions and across scales. We find that dimly lit regions
are more difficult to calibrate compared to brightly lit regions and
that inconsistencies persist in higher northern and lower southern
latitudes. We conclude that significant improvements in calibration
results will require a shift either towards absolute correction methods
using in-situ data or relative calibration methods using NTL from VIIRS.

### Global bare ground gain from 2000 to 2012 using Landsat imagery

Authors:
Ying, Q; Hansen, MC; Potapov, PV; Tyukavina, A; Wang, L; Stehman, SV;
Moore, R; Hancher, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 194 161-176; JUN 1 2017 

Abstract:
Bare ground gain, or vegetative cover loss, is an important component of
global land cover change resulting from economic drivers such as
urbanization and resource extraction. In this study, we characterized
global bare ground gain from Landsat time series. The maps were then
used to stratify the globe in creating a sample-based estimate of global
bare ground gain extent, land cover/land use outcomes, and associated
uncertainties from 2000 to 2012. An estimated total of 93,896 km(2) (+/-
9317 km(2) for 95% confidence interval) of bare ground gain occurred
over the study period. Human-induced bare ground gain accounted for 95%
of the total and consisted of the following components: 39% commercial
and residential development, 23% resource extraction, 21% infrastructure
development, 11% transitional, and 1% greenhouses. East Asia and the
Pacific accounted for nearly half of all global bare ground gain area
(45%), with China alone accounting for 35% of global gain. The United
States was second to China, accounting for 17% of total bare ground
gain. Land cover/land use outcomes of bare ground gain varied between
regions and countries, reflecting different stages of development and
the possible use of bare ground gain as an indicator of economic
activity.










