---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-08-28
modified: 2017-08-28
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #25

* Evolutionary conservation of a core root microbiome across plant phyla along a tropical soil chronosequence
* Geochemical proxies of sediment provenance in alluvial plains with interfering fluvial systems: A study case from NE Italy
* National baselines for the Sustainable Development Goals assessed in the SDG Index and Dashboards
* Multiresolution analysis of characteristic length scales with high-resolution topographic data
* A geospatial decision support system for supporting quality viticulture at the landscape scale
* Farm reorientation assessment model based on multi-criteria decision making













<!--more-->

### Evolutionary conservation of a core root microbiome across plant phyla along a tropical soil chronosequence

Authors:
Yeoh, YK; Dennis, PG; Paungfoo-Lonhienne, C; Weber, L; Brackin, R;
Ragan, MA; Schmidt, S; Hugenholtz, P

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 215-215; AUG 9 2017 

Abstract:
Culture-independent molecular surveys of plant root microbiomes indicate
that soil type generally has a stronger influence on microbial
communities than host phylogeny. However, these studies have mostly
focussed on model plants and crops. Here, we examine the root
microbiomes of multiple plant phyla including lycopods, ferns,
gymnosperms, and angiosperms across a soil chronosequence using 16S rRNA
gene amplicon profiling. We confirm that soil type is the primary
determinant of root-associated bacterial community composition, but also
observe a significant correlation with plant phylogeny. A total of 47
bacterial genera are associated with roots relative to bulk soil
microbial communities, including well-recognized plant-associated genera
such as Bradyrhizobium, Rhizobium, and Burkholderia, and major
uncharacterized lineages such as WPS-2, Ellin329, and FW68. We suggest
that these taxa collectively constitute an evolutionarily conserved core
root microbiome at this site. This lends support to the inference that a
core root microbiome has evolved with terrestrial plants over their 400
million year history.


### Geochemical proxies of sediment provenance in alluvial plains with interfering fluvial systems: A study case from NE Italy

Authors:
Natali, C; Bianchini, G

Source:
*CATENA*, 157 67-74; OCT 2017 

Abstract:
This paper demonstrates that geochemistry is useful for the
identification of sediment origin and provenance in alluvial plains
characterised by a complex hydrographic evolution. The study is focused
on the northeastern Padanian plain (Italy), an area primarily
characterised by sedimentary contributions from the two largest Italian
river systems (Po and Adige), which intimately interacted during the
last millennia. X-ray fluorescence analyses of 120 soils and alluvial
sediments define three diverse geochemical affinities that have
distinctive siderophile/chalcophile elemental ratios. The sample group
characterised by high Ni/Zn and Cr/Pb values conforms to modern Po River
sediments, whereas a second group showing low Ni/Zn and Cr/Pb values
conforms to the geochemical signature of modern Adige River sediments. A
third sample group defines a "transitional" affinity that represents a
geochemical mixture of Po (70%) and Adige (30%) sedimentary end-members.
Based on these geochemical features, it is possible to distinguish
alluvial sediments of the Po River basin (Ni/Zn > 1.0 and Cr/Pb > 4.2)
from those of the Adige River basin (Ni/Zn < 0.6 and Cr/Pb < 1.9) and to
provide evidence of the migration of these rivers during the evolution
of the Padanian plain. The interpretation of transitional samples is
less constrained and could imply an ancient connection between the two
fluvial systems, possibly due to the development of wetlands where both
the Po and Adige rivers variably delivered their sedimentary
contributions. This study approach, therefore, provides important
implications for palaeohydrographic and palaeoenvironmental
reconstructions in a complex area that is characterised by significant
geomorphological modifications during the last millennia.

### National baselines for the Sustainable Development Goals assessed in the SDG Index and Dashboards

Authors:
Schmidt-Traub, G; Kroll, C; Teksoz, K; Durand-Delacre, D; Sachs, JD

Source:
*NATURE GEOSCIENCE*, 10 (8):547-+; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) - agreed in 2015 by all 193
member states of the United Nations and complemented by commitments made
in the Paris Agreement - map out a broad spectrum of economic, social
and environmental objectives to be achieved by 2030. Reaching these
goals will require deep transformations in every country, as well as
major efforts in monitoring and measuring progress. Here we introduce
the SDG Index and Dashboards as analytical tools for assessing
countries' baselines for the SDGs that can be applied by researchers in
the cross-disciplinary analyses required for implementation. The Index
and Dashboards synthesize available country- level data for all 17
goals, and for each country estimate the size of the gap towards
achieving the SDGs. They will be updated annually. All 149 countries for
which sufficient data is available face significant challenges in
achieving the goals, and many countries' development strategies are
imbalanced across the economic, social and environmental priorities. We
illustrate the analytical value of the index by examining its
relationship with other widely used development indices and by showing
how it accounts for cross-national differences in subjective well-being.
Given significant data gaps, scope and coverage of the Index and
Dashboards are limited, but we suggest that these analyses represent a
starting point for a comprehensive assessment of national SDG baselines
and can help policymakers determine priorities for early action and
monitor progress. The tools also identify data gaps that must be closed
for SDG monitoring.

### Multiresolution analysis of characteristic length scales with high-resolution topographic data

Authors:
Sangireddy, H; Stark, CP; Passalacqua, P

Source:
*JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-EARTH SURFACE*, 122 (7):1296-1324; JUL 2017 

Abstract:
Characteristic length scales (CLS) define landscape structure and
delimit geomorphic processes. Here we use multiresolution analysis (MRA)
to estimate such scales from high-resolution topographic data. MRA
employs progressive terrain defocusing, via convolution of the terrain
data with Gaussian kernels of increasing standard deviation, and
calculation at each smoothing resolution of (i)the probability
distributions of curvature and topographic index (defined as the ratio
of slope to area in log scale) and (ii)characteristic spatial patterns
of divergent and convergent topography identified by analyzing the
curvature of the terrain. The MRA is first explored using synthetic 1-D
and 2-D signals whose CLS are known. It is then validated against a set
of MARSSIM (a landscape evolution model) steady state landscapes whose
CLS were tuned by varying hillslope diffusivity and simulated noise
amplitude. The known CLS match the scales at which the distributions of
topographic index and curvature show scaling breaks, indicating that the
MRA can identify CLS in landscapes based on the scaling behavior of
topographic attributes. Finally, the MRA is deployed to measure the CLS
of five natural landscapes using meter resolution digital terrain model
data. CLS are inferred from the scaling breaks of the topographic index
and curvature distributions and equated with (i)small-scale roughness
features and (ii)the hillslope length scale.

### A geospatial decision support system for supporting quality viticulture at the landscape scale

Authors:
Terribile, F; Bonfante, A; D'Antonio, A; De Mascellis, R; De Michele, C;
Langella, G; Manna, P; Mileti, FA; Vingiani, S; Basile, A

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 140 88-102; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
The world of viticulture connected to wine making has become a very
important activity in many inland areas permitting both the generation
of important income and the sustaining of agriculture systems.Recent
progress in both crop modeling and Decision Support Systems (DSS)
applied to viticulture promises important changes that combine both high
quality production and environmental sustainability. However, most of
this progress is only addressed at the farm level and does not challenge
the viticulture landscape, which is a key issue when facing DOC, DOCG
areas, wine growers' cooperatives and consortiums and strategic
viticulture planning.Thus, this paper aims to demonstrate that a new
type of DSS, which is developed on a Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure
(GCI) platform, may provide an important web-based operational tool for
high quality viticulture as it connects farm and landscape levels
better.The GCI platform supports acquisition, management, processing of
both static and dynamic data (e.g. pedological, daily climatic, and
vineyard distribution), data visualization, and on-the-fly computer
applications in order to perform simulation modeling (e.g. grapevine
water stress, evaluation of ecosystem services, etc.). These are all
potentially accessible via the Web.This is possible thanks to the
implementation of a set of modeling clusters that is strongly rooted in
soil-plant-atmosphere and physically based simulation modeling.The DSS
tool, applied to an area of 20,000 ha in Southern Italy, is designed to
address viticulture planning and management by providing operational
support for farmers, farmer associations and decision makers involved in
the viticulture landscape.Output of the system includes viticulture
planning and management scenario analysis, maps and evaluation of
potential and current plant water stress.The tool will also be
demonstrated through a short selection of practical case studies. 

### Farm reorientation assessment model based on multi-criteria decision making

Authors:
Nikoloski, T; Udovc, A; Pavlovic, M; Rajkovic, U

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 140 237-243; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Structural changes in farming present serious challenges at all spatial
levels, from individual farms to the state level. The reorientation of a
farm (i.e., changing from livestock production to one of horticulture or
crops) represents one of these challenges. Here, a model assessing the
potential for reorganizing farms to focus on horticulture is presented.
The model accounts for various criteria, including: natural resources,
demographic, economic, and social factors. The selection, structure, and
importance of criteria and their interrelationships in the model are
based on statistical data about farms, data gathered through surveys,
and expert opinion groups. The model was developed using the Decision
Expert method, implemented by the software DEXi, and was validated using
a selection of farms. The added value of the approach is a transparent
assessment of a farm's potential, which provides vital support for
deciding about its reorientation. 







