---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-11-12
modified: 2017-11-12
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #31

* An Assessment of Pedotransfer Function Performance for the Estimation of Spatial Variability of Key soil Hydraulic Properties
* Spatial Distribution of Organic Matter Compounds at Intact Macropore Surfaces Predicted by DRIFT Spectroscopy
* Introduction of Faba bean in crop rotation: Impacts on soil chemical and biological characteristics
* SituResp (R): A time- and cost-effective method to assess basal soil respiration in the field
* Exploring the reservoir of potential fungal plant pathogens in agricultural soil
* Near real time de-noising of satellite-based soil moisture retrievals: An intercomparison among three different techniques
* Landsat images and crop model for evaluating water stress of rainfed soybean
* The optical trapezoid model: A novel approach to remote sensing of soil moisture applied to Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations
* A new method for crop classification combining time series of radar images and crop phenology information
* Spatial variability of Australian soil texture: A multiscale analysis
* Multiscale contextual spatial modelling with the Gaussian scale space
* A new evaluation approach of World War One's devastated front zone: A shell hole density map based on historical aerial photographs and validated by electromagnetic induction field measurements to link the metal shrapnel phenomenon
* Modified Centroid for Estimating Sand, Silt, and Clay from Soil Texture Class
* Statistics, Scoring Functions, and Regional Analysis of a Comprehensive Soil Health Database




















<!--more-->

### An Assessment of Pedotransfer Function Performance for the Estimation of Spatial Variability of Key soil Hydraulic Properties

Authors:
da Silva, AC; Armindo, RA; Brito, AD; Schaap, MG

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (9):NIL_4-NIL_13; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
The reliable applications of soil water dynamics and its spatial
variability are very important in hydrological and environmental
studies. However, determination of some hydraulic properties requires
time and sometimes high costs. Pedotransfer functions (PTFs) have been
applied as an alternative for the prediction of soil hydraulic
properties by working with some easily measurable physical properties.
This study examined the performance of the Splintex and Rosetta PTFs for
estimating the spatial variability of some soil hydraulic properties
such as available water capacity (AWC), field capacity (0fc), permanent
wilting point (0pwp), specific water capacity [C(0)], conductivity
[K(0)], and diffusivity [D(0)] in a sandy soil from southeastern Brazil.
Based on the log-likelihood, Akaike, and Bayesian information criteria,
semivariogram models were fitted and used to krige the assessed variable
maps. The results showed the feasibility of using these PTFs to estimate
the spatial variability in soil hydraulic properties and functions,
which would greatly benefit vadose zone flow and transport modeling.
Geostatistical analyses presented similarities in kriged maps of both
observed K(0) and C(0) data with kriged maps by Rosetta estimates, as
well as the kriged map of the observed AWC data with the kriged map by
Splintex estimates sometimes revealing the same semivariogram data
pattern. Predicted maps of 0fc, 0pwp,and D(0) were, however, different
from kriged maps of the observed data, showing that this approach should
be used carefully. The use of the range parameter from the semivariogram
models was efficient to determine the optimal sample density for the
studied area.

### Spatial Distribution of Organic Matter Compounds at Intact Macropore Surfaces Predicted by DRIFT Spectroscopy

Authors:
Leue, M; Eckhardt, KU; Gerke, HH; Ellerbrock, RH; Leinweber, P

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (9):NIL_63-NIL_73; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
The illuvial Bf horizon of Luvisols is characterized by coatings of clay
and organic matter (OM) at the surfaces of cracks and biopore walls. The
occurrence and distribution of OM compounds such as heterocyclic N
compounds (NCOMP) and benzonitrile and naphthalene (BN+NA) in macropore
coatings could have important effects on preferential transport
processes in structured soil. The objective of this study was to
estimate the millimeter-scale distribution of NCOMP and BN+NA at intact
surfaces of coated and uncoated cracks, pinholes, and burrow walls. The
proportions of NCOMP and BN+NA in OM were determined by pyrolysis-field
ionization mass spectrometry (Py-FIMS) from disturbed material that was
manually separated from the intact sample surfaces. Fourier-transform
infrared spectroscopy in diffuse reflectance mode (DRIFT) and partial
least squares regression (PLSR) between DRIFT signals and Py-FIMS data
were used to generate millimeter-scale maps of predicted NCOMP and BN+NA
proportions at intact macropore surfaces. The NCOMP and BN+NA
proportions were linearly related to C=O and C=C groups from OM and to
O-H groups from clay minerals in DRIFT spectra. The millimeter-scale
distribution of NCOMP and BN+NA at intact macropore surfaces could be
predicted in terms of relative differences among the macropore types.
Increased NCOMP and BN+NA proportions corresponded to the spatial
distribution of crack coatings and pinholes. The relative enrichment
suggested that pyrogenic OM has been preferentially transported in
cracks rather than in biopores and that it was stabilized by clay
minerals and prevented from decomposition. The results indicated that
preferential transport affects OM turnover processes in the subsoil.

### Introduction of Faba bean in crop rotation: Impacts on soil chemical and biological characteristics

Authors:
Aschi, A; Aubert, M; Riah-Anglet, W; Nelieu, S; Dubois, C;
Akpa-Vinceslas, M; Trinsoutrot-Gattin, I

Source:
*APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY*, 120 219-228; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Agricultural practices such as crop rotation affect soil physical,
chemical and biological properties. Legumes crop effect has been shown
to provide several agro-ecological services as a cereal previous crop.
The aim of the present field study was to estimate the middle term
effects of introducing faba bean in crop rotation on the structure and
function of soil microbial communities. Two experimental rotation
systems were tested (i) Wheat-Beet-Faba Bean-Rape-Wheat (Leg(+)) and
(ii) Wheat-Flax-Wheat-Beet-Wheat (Leg(-)). Soil samples were collected
on tilled plots at 0-10 cm depth on July 2013 under wheat. Soil
microbial biomass and soil enzymatic activities (beta-glucosidase,
cellulase, urease and arylamidase activities) were assessed. Soil
microbial diversity was evaluated with two complementary approaches:
Phospholipid fatty acid profiling (PLFA) and the metabolic capabilities
of the microbial community (Biolog Ecoplates). Soil organic carbon and
total nitrogen were significantly and respectively 1.5 and 1.3 times
higher in faba bean's rotation compared to free faba bean rotation. Soil
microbial biomass did not differ significantly between the two
rotations. In general, Leg(+) rotation resulted in the greatest carbon
mineralization and beta-glucosidase and arylamidase activities. The
analysis of Biolog data and PLFA profiling indicated that the rotation
including faba bean has modified microbial populations and induced
differences in the catabolic capability of soil microbial communities.
Our results suggested that changing rotation crop by introducing faba
bean two years before wheat modifies the surrounding habitat of
microbial communities by providing available carbon and nitrogen as well
as suitable soil pH. This new habitat could impact the structure of
microbial communities and their functions. Leg (+) rotation seems to be
a suitable practice promoting microbial activities in agricultural
plots.

### SituResp (R): A time- and cost-effective method to assess basal soil respiration in the field

Authors:
Thoumazeau, A; Gay, F; Alonso, P; Suvannang, N; Phongjinda, A; Panklang,
P; Tiphaine, C; Bessou, C; Brauman, A

Source:
*APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY*, 121 223-230; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
The soil microbial activity is a key parameter in numerous studies
aiming to assess soil quality in agricultural plots. Basal Soil
Respiration (BSR) has been extensively used as an indicator of this soil
microbial activity. However, available methods to measure BSR remain
time-and labor-consuming and must be performed in the laboratory which
may lead to result distortion due to the needed soil pre-treatments. The
SituResp (R) method was developed to assess BSR in a time-and
cost-effective way. This method was adapted from a laboratory
methodology, the MicroResp (TM) method, in order to be implemented in
the field on fresh soil samples. It is based on the color change of a
pH-sensitive gel in reaction to the CO2 concentration change in the
headspace of a soil sample over the 24-h incubation. This study presents
the calibration and validation of the SituResp (R) method in laboratory
conditions, and a comparison in the field with the Solvita (R) tool, a
comparable method used by agricultural scientists and advisors. The
results of the calibration showed a high correlation between the air CO2
concentration and the absorbance variation of the gel at 570 nm (R-2 =
0.95). The validation against the titration alkali-trap method, on 21
soil samples, showed a strong correlation between the two methods (R-2 =
0.90). In the field test on 9 agricultural-plots, the SituResp (R)
method yielded similar results to the Solvita (R) tool. The SituResp (R)
method is therefore a reliable method for performing a cheap, rapid but
efficient assessment of soil microbial activity in the field which could
be included in soil quality monitoring.

### Exploring the reservoir of potential fungal plant pathogens in agricultural soil

Authors:
van Agtmaal, M; Straathof, A; Termorshuizen, A; Teurlincx, S;
Hundscheid, M; Ruyters, S; Busschaert, P; Lievens, B; de Boer, W

Source:
*APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY*, 121 152-160; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Soil-borne pathogens cause great crop losses in agriculture. Because of
their resilience in the soil, these pathogens persist in a population
reservoir, causing future outbreaks of crop diseases. Management focus
is usually on the most common pathogens occurring, but it is likely that
a mixed population of pathogens together affect crops. Next generation
sequencing of DNA from environmental samples can provide information on
the presence of potential pathogens. The aim of this study was to obtain
insight into the factors that drive the composition of potential plant
pathogen populations in agricultural soils. To this end, the alpha and
beta diversity of fungal OTUs that were assigned as potential plant
pathogens for 42 agricultural soils were assessed. The presented study
is the first inventory of the pool of pathogens and its correlating
factors. The results of this inventory indicate that the composition of
pathogens in soil is driven by pH, soil type, crop history, litter
saprotrophic fungi and spatial patterns. The major driving factors
differed between potential root-and shoot-infecting fungi, suggesting
interactions among environmental factors and pathogen traits like
reproduction, survival and dispersal. This information is important to
understand risks for disease outbreaks and to recommend management
strategies to prevent such outbreaks.

### Near real time de-noising of satellite-based soil moisture retrievals: An intercomparison among three different techniques

Authors:
Massari, C; Su, CH; Brocca, L; Sang, YF; Ciabatta, L; Ryu, D; Wagner, W

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 17-29; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
Real-time de-noising of satellite-derived soil moisture observations
presents opportunities to deliver more accurate and timely satellite
data for direct satellite users. So far, the most commonly used
techniques for reducing the impact of noise in the retrieved satellite
soil moisture observations have been based on moving average filters and
Fourier based methods. This paper introduces a new alternative wavelet
based approach called Wiener-Wavelet-Based Filter (WiW), which uses an
entropy based de-noising method to design a causal version of the
filter. WiW is used as a post-retrieval processing tool to enhance the
quality of observations derived from one active (the Advanced
Scatterometer, ASCAT) and one passive (the Advanced Microwave Scanning
Radiometer for Earth Observing System, AMSRE) satellite sensors. The
filter is then compared with two candidate de-noising techniques,
namely: i) a Wiener causal filter introduced by Su et al. (2013) and ii)
a conventional moving average filter. The validation is carried out
globally at 173 (for AMSRE) and 243 (for ASCAT) soil moisture stations.
Results show that all the three de-noising techniques can increase the
agreement between satellite and in situ measurements in terms of
correlation and signal-to-noise ratio. The Wiener-based methods show
least signal distortion and demonstrate to be conservative in retaining
the signal information in de-noised data. Importantly, the Wiener
filters can be calibrated with the data at hand, without the need for
auxiliary data. 

### Landsat images and crop model for evaluating water stress of rainfed soybean

Authors:
Sayago, S; Ovando, G; Bocco, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 30-39; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
Soil water content is a vital resource that plays a central role in
agricultural areas. In Argentina the soybean (Glycine max (L) Merrill)
is the most important crop, considering the economic yield and the sown
area. Actually, remote sensing allows continuous monitoring of crops and
to evaluate the impact of water stress in their development. The
combination of Land Surface Temperature (LST) and the Normalized
Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) is an indicator that provides
information about the condition of the vegetation and surface soil
moisture content. In this study we evaluate relationships between
indicators of crop water stress and the Temperature Vegetation Dryness
Index (TVDI) determined from Landsat, for sites with rainfed soybean in
the agricultural central zone of Cordoba (Argentina).Field data were
acquired continuously throughout the whole growing season. For each
sample date and plot, data of percent green vegetation cover, soil
moisture content and phenology were registered. The use of a simulation
crop model allowed obtaining indicators of crop water stress indices:
(1) soil water deficit, (2) crop water use vs. reference crop
evapotranspiration, and (3) fraction of the available water capacity
that is readily available.The NDVI/LST spaces presented a trapezoidal
form, which indicated that TVDI will have similar sensitivity for the
full range of NDVI and showed temporal changes of wet and dry edges.When
soybean cover exceeds 60%, the combination of TVDI with (2) and (3) can
enhance the ability of detecting crop water stress conditions (R-2 =
0.62 and 0.82, respectively). However, the relationship between TVDI and
(1) showed low correlation values (R-2 = 0.21). 

### The optical trapezoid model: A novel approach to remote sensing of soil moisture applied to Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations

Authors:
Sadeghi, M; Babaeian, E; Tuller, M; Jones, SB

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 52-68; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
The "trapezoid" or "triangle" model constitutes the most popular
approach to remote sensing (RS) of surface soil moisture based on
coupled thermal (Le., land surface temperature) and optical RS
observations. The model, hereinafter referred to as Thermal-OptiCal
TRAapezoid Model (TOTRAM), is based on interpretation of the pixel
distribution within the land surface temperature - vegetation index
(LST-VI) space. TOTRAM suffers from two inherent limitations. It is not
applicable to satellites that do not provide thermal data (e.g.,
Sentinel-2) and it requires parameterization for each individual
observation date. To overcome these restrictions we propose a novel
Optical TRApezoid Model (OPTRAM), which is based on the linear physical
relationship between soil moisture and shortwave infrared transformed
reflectance (SIR) and is parameterized based on the pixel distribution
within the SIR-VI space. The OPTRAM-based surface soil moisture
estimates derived from Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8 observations for the
Walnut Gulch and Little Washita watersheds were compared with ground
truth soil moisture data. Results indicate that the prediction
accuracies of OPTRAM and TOTRAM are comparable, with OPTRAM only
requiring observations in the optical electromagnetic frequency domain.
The volumetric moisture content estimation errors of both models were
below 0.04 cm(3) cm(-3) with local calibration and about 0.04-0.05 cm(3)
cm(-3) without calibration. We also demonstrate that OPTRAM only
requires a single universal parameterization for a given location, which
is a significant advancement that opens a new avenue for remote sensing
of soil moisture

### A new method for crop classification combining time series of radar images and crop phenology information

Authors:
Bargiel, D

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 198 369-383; SEP 1 2017 

Abstract:
Agricultural land cover is characterized by strong variations within
relatively short time intervals. These dynamics are challenging for land
cover classifications on the one hand, but deliver crucial information
that can be used to improve the classifiers performance on the other
hand. Since up to date mapping of crops is crucial to assess the impact
of agricultural land use on the ecosystems, an accurate and complete
classification of crop types is of high importance. In the presented
study, a new multitemporal data based classification approach was
developed that incorporates knowledge about the phenological changes on
crop lands. It identifies phenological sequence patterns (PSP) of the
crop types based on a dense stack of Sentinel-1 data and accurate
information about the plant's phenology. The performance of the
developed methodology has been tested for two different vegetation
seasons using over 200 ground truth fields located in northern Germany.
The results showed that a dense time series of Sentinel-1 images allowed
for high classification accuracies of grasslands, maize, canola, sugar
beets and potatoes (F1-score above 0.8) using PSP as well as standard
(Random Forest and Maximum Likelihood) classification method. The PSP
approach clearly outperformed standard methods for cereal crops,
especially for spring barley where the F1-score varied between zero and
0.43 for standard approaches, while PSP achieved values as high as 0.74
and 0.79 for both vegetation seasons. The PSP based approach also
outperformed for oat, winter barley and rye. Furthermore, the PSP
classification is more resilient to differences in farming management
and conditions of growth since it takes information about each crop
types' growing stage and its growing period into consideration. The
results also indicate, that the PSP approach was more sensitive to
subtle changes such as the proportion of weeds within a field

### Spatial variability of Australian soil texture: A multiscale analysis

Authors:
Paterson, S; Minasny, B; McBratney, A

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 309 60-74; JAN 1 2018 

Abstract:
Understanding how soil variability changes with spatial scale is
critical to our ability to understand and model soil processes at scales
relevant to decision makers. The compilation of large legacy data sets
has opened up new possibilities to model spatial variability at the
continental or even global scale. Using the National Soil Site Collation
(NSSC) dataset of Australia we created empirical variograms for sand and
clay fraction at extents from 1 km to continental. The NSSC dataset is
highly spatially clustered; a typical feature of legacy datasets. This
leads to lumpy artefacts in the variograms. To reduce this lumpiness we
employed grid based declustering. We used the declustered empirical
variograms to calculate the Hausdorff Besicovitch Dimension - a unitless
measure of spatial roughness. We first fit a power model to each
declustered variogram and calculated the Hausdorff Besicovitch dimension
at each modelled scale. This allowed us to assess the roughness or
variability at each modelled extent, however this assessment was
somewhat arbitrary and showed that roughness depends on the extent. We
have proposed a new model that allows us to calculate the Hausdorff
Besicovitch dimension continuously across all extents. The conceptual
basis of this model moves away from a multi-fractal framework typically
used by soil scientists. It allows us to describe spatial variability or
stochasticity as a continuous function of spatial separation. Both our
new model and the continental scale variograms of texture emphasise the
high degree of short range variability in soil texture. Empirical
variograms indicate that around 50% of spatial variability occurs at <
10 km, and 30% at < 1 km. Spatial variability of soil texture increases
with depth consistently across all modelled extents. Beyond extents of
around 100 km, the Hausdorff Besicovitch Dimension remains relatively
stable. Soil spatial variability is highly stochastic at fine scales
however it changes gradually with extent and scale rather than abruptly.

### Multiscale contextual spatial modelling with the Gaussian scale space

Authors:
Behrens, T; Schmidt, K; MacMillan, RA; Rossel, RAV

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 310 128-137; JAN 15 2018 

Abstract:
We present a contextual spatial modelling (CSM) framework, as a
methodology for multiscale, hierarchical mapping and analysis. The aim
is to propose and evaluate a practical method that can account for the
complex interactions of environmental covariates across multiple scales
and their influence on soil formation. Here we derived common terrain
attributes from multiscale versions of a DEM based on up-sampled octaves
of the Gaussian pyramid. Because the CSM approach is based on a
relatively small set of scales and terrain attributes it is efficient,
and depending on the regression algorithm and the covariates used in the
modelling, the results can be interpreted in terms of soil formation.
Cross-validation coefficient of determination modelling (R-2), for
predictions of clay and silt increased from 0.38 and 0.16 when using the
covariates derived at the original DEM resolution to 0.68 and 0.63,
respectively, when using CSM. These results are similar to those
achieved with the hyperscale covariates of ConMap and ConStat. As with
these hyperscale covariates, the multiscale covariates derived from the
Gaussian scale space in CSM capture the observed spatial dependencies
and interactions of the landscape and soil. However, some advantages of
CSM approach compared to ConMap and ConStat are i) a reduced set of
scales that still manage to represent the entire extent of the range of
scales, ii) a reduced set of attributes at each scale, iii) more
efficient computation, and iv) better interpretability of the important
covariates used in the modelling and thus of the factors that affect
soil formation.

### A new evaluation approach of World War One's devastated front zone: A shell hole density map based on historical aerial photographs and validated by electromagnetic induction field measurements to link the metal shrapnel phenomenon

Authors:
Note, N; Gheyle, W; Van den Berghe, H; Saey, T; Bourgeois, J; Van
Eetvelde, V; Van Meirvenne, M; Stichelbaut, B

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 310 257-269; JAN 15 2018 

Abstract:
Since the end of World War One, only few research is performed to
understand the extent of the destruction of the first meters of soil
archive at the former Belgian front zone. The only existing sources
identifying the by artillery destroyed landscape are maps indicating
destruction at the level of administrative communities, based on war
damage inventories. Even a century after the war, there is a need to
gain more detail in the historical destruction at a landscape or parcel
scale. Unlike in neighboring country France, the Belgian authorities
allowed a complete repopulation of the front zone, which results in an
ongoing confrontation between ground workers (farmers, construction
workers, archaeologists, etc.), the war's heritage (trenches, bunkers,
graves, etc.) and its dangers (unexploded ordnances, UXO). Metal
shrapnel and the high rate of unexploded shells (up to 30% of the fired
projectiles) are typical remnants of this trench warfare. The
localization of these phenomena is also useful to simulate the extent of
the war's environmental impact and the intensity of possible UXO-finds.
To inventorize destruction and the related metal shrapnel pollution
(MSP), we propose a new mapping method based on a sampling strategy to
digitize shelling densities, derived from historical aerial photographs.
This data source allows us to characterize almost every single parcel in
this mainly agricultural area. By classifying the derived shelling
densities, destruction classes can be distinguished to describe the
impact on landscape and soil archive. The translation of the destruction
map into a map indicating the level of buried metal shrapnel, was
possible due to the direct relation between shells, metal shrapnel and
shell holes. A validation with the buried metal objects was performed
with metal parameters derived from electromagnetic induction field
surveys. These scan results indicated a strong relation between shelling
densities and the buried metal clutter. Based on the findings in this
research, we offer tools to create an accurate destruction map that can
be directly related to the occurrence of WW1 relicts within the soil
archive.

### Modified Centroid for Estimating Sand, Silt, and Clay from Soil Texture Class

Authors:
Levi, MR

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (3):578-588; MAY-JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Models that require inputs of soil texture are often limited by the
availability of soil information. While texture class is easier to
obtain than particle size, texture classes do not represent the
continuum of soil size fractions. Soil texture class and clay percentage
are collected as a standard practice for many land management agencies
(e.g., NRCS, BLM, FAO) and clay content is frequently estimated with
acceptable accuracy (+/- 5%). When clay and texture class is known, sand
and silt can be constrained to a narrow range that may differ from the
geometric centroid of a given texture class (gcent). I tested the
concept of a modified centroid approach (mcent) using 75,736 soil
samples from the National Cooperative Soil Survey pedon database that
also had measured hydraulic soil properties. Comparisons were made using
the Rosetta pedotransfer function (PTF) to test modeled values from
gcent, mcent, and measured data in comparison with measured values of
water content at field capacity (theta(330)) and wilting point
(theta(15000)). The mcent approach produced a continuous distribution of
values for sand and silt whereas gcent produced a stair-step pattern for
each of the 12 texture classes. Rosetta underestimated water content.
Error metrics were similar when all texture classes were combined, but
differences between models emerged when individual texture classes were
compared. Results support the practice of collecting field estimates of
clay percentage along with texture class to expand the use of soil
profile data for both spatial and non-spatial modeling of soil processes
that will advance our understanding of soil contributions to ecosystem
function.

### Statistics, Scoring Functions, and Regional Analysis of a Comprehensive Soil Health Database

Authors:
Fine, AK; van Es, HM; Schindelbeck, RR

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (3):589-601; MAY-JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Soil health (SH) refers to the ability of a soil to function and provide
ecosystem services. The Comprehensive Assessment of Soil Health (CASH)
is an approach that measures 15 physical, biological, and chemical soil
indicators, which are interpreted through scoring functions. This study
reports on the SH status of 5767 samples from the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest,
and Northeast regions of the USA as evaluated using CASH. Descriptive
statistics and ANOVAs of subdatasets by region and soil textural group
for SH indicators, in addition to correlation coefficients, principal
component (PC) analysis, and best subsets regression (BSR) were
performed. From these analyses, new CASH scoring functions were
developed. Separate scoring functions by textural group (fine, medium,
coarse) were necessary for Wet Aggregate Stability (WAS), Available
Water Capacity (AWS), Organic Matter (OM), Active Carbon (AC), and
Protein. Differences existed among regions, especially for WAS, OM,
Protein, and Respiration (Resp), where the Midwest had relatively lower
mean values compared to the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast. Biological
properties and WAS showed moderately strong correlations (r = 0.58-0.78)
and the highest loadings for the first two PCs. BSR results using the
overall soil quality index as the response variable indicated that AC
accounts for 45% of the variation, with additional predictability from
Penetration Resistance, Resp, and WAS (68%). These four indicators are
suggested for simplified SH tests. We conclude that the CASH approach
can be successfully applied to evaluate the health status of soils with
differing pedogenetic histories.














