---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-01-16
modified: 2017-01-16
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #2

<!--more-->



### Rearranging agricultural landscapes towards habitat quality optimisation: In silico application to pest regulation

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1476945X16300538)

Authors:
Parisey, N; Bourhis, Y; Roques, L; Soubeyrand, S; Ricci, B; Poggi, S

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 28 113-122; DEC 2016 

[Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1476945X16300538)

Abstract:
Modern agriculture suffers from its dependence on chemical inputs and
subsequent impacts on health and environment. Alternatively, protecting
crops against pests can be achieved through the reinforcement of
regulation ecological services. Our work propounds a data-driven
methodological framework to derive relevant agricultural landscape
rearrangements enhancing populations of beneficial organisms regulating
pests.Building on spatialised entomological and geographic data, we
developed a parsimonious reaction diffusion model describing the
population dynamics of beneficial organisms. Parameter estimation was
carried out in a Bayesian framework accounting for uncertainty in the
measurement.Thousands of agricultural landscapes were generated under
agronomic specifications dealt with as constraint satisfaction problems.
Population dynamics was simulated on each landscape with the fitted
reaction-diffusion model mentioned above, and two metrics of abundances
allowed the assessment of the regulation performance of the landscape
spatial arrangements. One metric is a mean field performance criterion
assessing the regulation performance from the landscape composition
only, the other is a spatial performance metric assessing the
performance resulting from the whole landscape spatial configuration.
The former is computed with a non-spatialised form of the population
dynamics model, the latter results from the reaction-diffusion model of
the population dynamics. Comparing these metrics enabled to quantify the
impact of spatial arrangements, hence allowing arrangements
proposals.This framework was applied to the case study of a ground
beetle species involved in the biological regulation of weeds. The
arrangement proposals abides by the productive agronomic constraint that
is the landscape composition, while they allow for significant habitat
quality enhancement (or deterioration) for the beneficial organism (or a
pest). Minor adaptations of our integrated data-driven approach would
suit numerous situations ranging from the provision of enhanced
ecosystem services to land management for conservation.


### Toward mapping crop progress at field scales through fusion of Landsat and MODIS imagery

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716304369)


Authors:
Gao, F; Anderson, MC; Zhang, XY; Yang, ZW; Alfieri, JG; Kustas, WP;
Mueller, R; Johnson, DM; Prueger, JH

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 188 9-25; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
The ability to regionally monitor crop progress and condition through
the growing season benefits both crop management and yield estimation.
In the United States, these metrics are reported weekly at state or
district (multiple counties) levels by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) using
field observations provided by trained local reporters. However, the
ground data collection process supporting this effort is time consuming
and subjective. Furthermore, operational crop management and yield
estimation efforts require information with more granularity than at the
state or district level. This paper evaluates remote sensing approaches
for mapping crop phenology using vegetation index time-series generated
by fusing Landsat and MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging
Spectroradiometer) surface reflectance imagery to improve temporal
sampling over that provided by Landsat alone. The case study focuses on
an agricultural region in central Iowa from 2001 to 2014. Our objectives
are 1) to assess Landsat-MODIS data fusion results over cropland; 2) to
map crop phenology at 30 m resolution using fused surface reflectance
data; and 3) to identify the relationships between remotely sensed crop
phenology metrics and the crop progress stages reported by NASS. The
results show that detailed spatial and temporal variability in
vegetation development across this landscape can be identified using the
fused Landsat-MODIS data. The mean difference (bias) in Normalized
Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) between actual Landsat observations
and the fused Landsat-MODIS data, generated for Landsat overpass dates,
is in the range of 0.011 to 0.028 for every year. The derived
phenological metrics show distinct features for different crops and
natural vegetation at field scales. Strong correlations are observed
between remotely sensed phenological stages, based on NDVI curve
inflection points, and the observed crop physiological growth stages
from the NASS Crop Progress (CP) reports. The green-up dates detected
from remote sensing data typically occurred during crop vegetative
stages when 2-4 leaves were developed for both corn and soybeans, or
about 1-3 weeks after the reported emergence dates when the plant were
first visible to ground based observers. Despite being a lagging
indicator, remotely sensed green-up can be used effectively to backcast
emergence, e.g. as input to spatially distributed crop models. The
differences in green-up date between corn and soybean were 8-10 days,
consistent with the offset in emergence dates reported by NASS at
district level. The reported harvest dates were typically about 2-3
weeks after the dormancy stage was detected via remote sensing for corn
and about 1-2 weeks for soybeans. This suggests that probable harvest
times for individual fields may be predicted 1-3 weeks ahead using
remote sensing data. The results suggest that crop phenology and certain
growth stages at field scales (30 m spatial resolution) can be linked
and mapped by integrating imagery from multiple remote sensing
platforms. 


### Landslide mapping from aerial photographs using change detection-based Markov random field

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716303807)

Authors:
Li, ZB; Shi, WZ; Lu, P; Yan, L; Wang, QM; Miao, ZL

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 187 76-90; DEC 15 2016 

Abstract:
Landslide mapping (LM) is essential for hazard prevention, mitigation,
and vulnerability assessment. Despite the great efforts over the past
few years, there is room for improvement in its accuracy and efficiency.
Existing LM is primarily achieved using field surveys or visual
interpretation of remote sensing images. However, such methods are
highly labor-intensive and time-consuming, particularly over large
areas. Thus, in this paper a change detection-based Markov random field
(CDMRF) method is proposed for near-automatic LM from aerial
orthophotos. The proposed CDMRF is applied to a landslide-prone site
with an area of approximately 40 km2 on Lantau Island, Hong Kong.
Compared with the existing region-based level set evolution (RLSE), it
has three main advantages: 1) it employs a more robust threshold method
to generate the training samples; 2) it can identify landslides more
accurately as it takes advantages of both the spectral and spatial
contextual information of landslides; and 3) it needs little parameter
tuning. Quantitative evaluation shows that it outperforms RLSE in the
whole study area by almost 5.5% in Correctness and by 4% in Quality. To
our knowledge, it is the first time CDMRF is used to LM from bitemporal
aerial photographs. It is highly generic and has great potential for
operational LM applications in large areas and also can be adapted for
other sources of imagery data.


### Does AMSR2 produce better soil moisture retrievals than AMSR-E over Australia?

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003442571630428X)

Authors:
Cho, ES; Su, CH; Ryu, D; Kim, H; Choi, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 188 95-105; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2), a follow-up
microwave sensor to the AMSR for Earth Observing System (AMSR-E), was
launched on the Global Change Observation Mission 1- Water (GCOM-W1)
satellite in May 2012. It is as yet unclear if instrumental improvements
in AMSR2 over AMSR-E have led to better soil moisture (SM) estimates,
especially since there is no overlapping period of data between the
sensors. This study focuses on comparing the results of AMSR2 and AMSR-E
SM over Australia, distinguishing four Koppen climate zones to determine
if AMSR2 is better than AMSR-E. This is achieved by selecting two
year-long comparative time periods from the operating periods of AMSR-E
and AMSR2, based on their statistical similarities in modeled SM as a
proxy, using Modem Era Retrospective-analysis for Research and
Applications-Land (MERRAL). The AMSR2 and AMSR-E C- and X-band SM
derived from the Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM) was evaluated.
Both AMSR2 C- and X-band SM products were found to show similar temporal
patterns and spatial agreement with AMSR-E C- and X-band SM, supported
by unbiased root mean square difference (ubRMSD) and R-values with
MERRA-L SM, respectively. Using lag-based instrumental variable analysis
to estimate the random error component of SM retrievals, the
noise-to-signal ratios in AMSR2 X-band SM were found to be slightly
higher than their AMSR-E counterparts. The improvements in AMSR2, such
as the superior radiometric sensitivity and spatial resolution, have
therefore not led to statistically significant differences in
performance for LPRM retrievals at 1/2 degrees x 1/2 degrees grid
resolution, when compared with AMSR-E. However, similarities in the
metrics for AMSR2 and AMSR-E SM suggest that AMSR2 provides a valuable
continuation to AMSR-E.


### Soil moisture prediction of bare soil profiles using diffuse spectral reflectance information and vadose zone flow modeling

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716304011)

Authors:
Babaeian, E; Homaee, M; Montzka, C; Vereecken, H; Norouzi, AA; van
Genuchten, MT

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 187 218-229; DEC 15 2016 

Abstract:
Soil hydraulic property information of the vadose zone is key to
quantifying the temporal and spatial variability of soil moisture, and
for modeling water flow and contaminant transport processes in the near
surface. This study deals with exploring the feasibility of using
diffuse soil spectral information in the visible, near-infrared and
shortwave infrared range (350-2500 nm) to estimate coarse-scale soil
hydraulic parameters and predict soil moisture profiles using a
topography-based aggregation scheme in conjunction with a 1D mechanistic
water flow model. Three different types of parametric transfer functions
(so-called spectrotransfer functions, STFs; pedotransfer functions,
PTFs; and spectral pedotransfer functions, SPTF5) were aggregated from
the point scale to 1 km(2) pixel size. to provide coarse scale estimates
of van Genuchten-Mualem (VGM) hydraulic parameters. The coarse scale
hydraulic parameters were evaluated by simulating soil water dynamics of
the 1 km(2) pixels across the Zanjanrood River sub-watershed (ZRS) in
northwest Iran. Resultant soil water states were compared with
ground-truth measurements and advanced synthetic aperture radar (ASAR)
estimates of soil water content. The topography-based aggregation scheme
was found to provide effective values of the VGM hydraulic parameters
across the ZRS study site. The coarse scale STFs performed best in terms
of simulating surface, near-surface and subsurface soil water dynamics,
followed by the coarse scale SPTFs and PM, which performed similarly.
The average simulated soil water contents of the surface layer closely
correlated with ASAR estimates during relatively wet periods. Simulated
subsurface soil water dynamics matched well with the ground-truth
measurements. These findings indicate the feasibility of using spectral
data to predict VGM hydraulic parameters and, ultimately, to predict
soil water dynamics at the larger scales.


### On the performance of remote sensing time series reconstruction methods - A spatial comparison

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716303972)


Authors:
Zhou, J; Jia, L; Menenti, M; Gorte, B

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 187 367-384; DEC 15 2016 

Abstract:
The satellite observed Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)
time series, which describe the temporal and spatial variability of
global terrestrial vegetation, are inevitably contaminated by clouds,
aerosol, snow and ice cover. In general all these conditions yield
negative deviations in the time series of NDVI. Many time series
reconstruction models have been developed to eliminate effect of the
negative deviations and most of them perform differently in different
applications and regions. The Harmonic Analysis (HA), Double logistic
(DL), Asymmetric Gaussian (AG), Whittaker smoother (WS) and
Savitzky-Golay filter (SG) are five of the most widely used time series
reconstruction models owing to their simplicity of implementation or the
capability to extract phenological metrics from the time series. The
performance of these models varies with the NDVI signal and the noise
distribution, however, and until now there is no consensus on which
method outperforms all others under all situations. Since the NDVI
signal and the noise distribution are highly dependent on regional
climate and land cover, the reconstruction performance is expected to be
spatially variable. Thus this study compared the five reconstruction
models at pixel scale to provide practical and biome- specific
recommendations for future time series reconstruction applications.
Specifically, the 14 years raw daily reflectance data and ancillary
Quality Assessment (QA) information from the MODIS sensor were used to
generate pixel reference series and noisy series. Then the five
candidate models were applied to both reference series and noisy series
and three reconstruction performance metrics i.e. Overall Reconstruction
Error (ORE), Fitting Related Error (FRE), and Normalized Noise Related
Error (NNRE), were calculated. Finally, the performance of the five
candidate reconstruction models was evaluated by applying the three
metrics. The preliminary results showed that when considering ORE only,
the Asymmetric Gaussian model outperforms other models over most areas
of high latitude boreal region, while the Savitzky-Golay model gives the
best reconstruction performance in tropical and subtropical regions. The
FRE and the NNRE helped to reveal the main error sources in the
reconstruction in different regions. The comparison method developed and
applied in this study led to suggest adaptive selection of the best
reconstruction model for specific NDVI signals and noise distribution.

## Scale and scaling in soils

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016706116303640)



Authors:
Pachepsky, Y; Hill, RL

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 287 4-30; SI FEB 1 2017 

Abstract:
Scale is recognized as a central concept in the description of the
hierarchical organization of our world. Pressing environmental and
societal problems require an understanding of how processes operate at
different scales, and how they can be linked across scales. Soil science
as many other disciplines obtain the bulk of their empirical information
at fine scales, whereas results of environmental diagnostics,
monitoring, and predictions are needed to make important policy
decisions at much larger scales. It becomes imperative to relate the
information that is available and produced at different scales. The
objective of this work is to present an overview of concepts that are
currently used to define and relate scales in soil studies. The paper is
not intended to be a compendium, but rather should be viewed as material
for discussion, reference, and critique. It discusses definitions and
terminology, including general approaches of scale problems in
environmental studies that are applicable to soils, including
hierarchies, measurement metrics, similitude, non-geometric scale
metrics, and notions of upscaling and downscaling. Concepts of general
scaling methods and theories are dimensional analysis, power law
scaling, space and time dependent scaling. A section on spatiotemporal
patterns introduces scaling ideas that were used in soil studies such as
empirical orthogonal functions, data assimilation, and cumulative
distribution function matching. Reviewed scaling methods developed
specifically to soil studies include geometric similitude of pore
spaces, scaling with Richards equation, scale dependencies of water and
solute flux model parameters, scaling based on temporal stability,
overland flow and sediment transport as the scaling phenomenon, and the
relevance of scaling to pedotransfer functions. An outlook for scaling
research in soils is presented that shows the needs of additional
research and the feasibility of using scaling to enrich and advance soil
research to help face the grand challenges of modern times.

## A unified expression for grain size distribution of soils

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016706116307649)

Authors:
Li, Y; Huang, CM; Wang, BL; Tian, XF; Liu, JJ

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 288 105-119; FEB 15 2017 

Abstract:
Grain size distribution (GSD) is fundamental for soils and usually
described by a set of graphic parameters (e.g., median size, kurtosis,
skewness, uniform and curvature coefficient). Some probability
distributions (e.g., lognormal and Weibull distribution) are used for
special cases, but no general expression is available. In this paper we
propose a general distribution form of P(D) = CD(-mu)exp(-D/Dc) for
various soil materials, with P(D) the exceedance percentage and C,mu and
D-c are parameters determined by the grain size frequency data. The
power-law and exponential part of this expression respectively responds
to the self-similar and random processes of grain fragmentation and
accumulation in soil generation and evolution. The GSD parameters are
distinct in soils and their variation reflects the changes in grain
composition, such as the grain migration and segregation in landslides,
avalanches, debris flows and sedimentary deposits. In addition, the GSD
also fits the pore size of granular materials, confirming the grain-pore
duality and suggesting an important role of the GSD expression in
dynamics of soils and granular media in general.


### Does organic farming accumulate carbon in deeper soil profiles in the long term?

[link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016706116305109)

Authors:
Blanco-Canqui, H; Francis, CA; Galusha, TD

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 288 213-221; FEB 15 2017 

Abstract:
Organic farming systems provide the opportunity to deliver more soil
ecosystem services than conventional practices. One such service could
be soil organic C (SOC) accumulation, but recent debates suggest that
this is unclear. Furthermore, organic farming potential to accumulate
SOC for the entire soil profile is not well known. We quantified the
cumulative SOC stocks, aggregate-associated SOC, and particulate organic
matter (POM) concentrations for the 0-100 cm depth of the soil profile
in a comparative crop rotation experiment in eastern Nebraska after >20
yr of management. We studied: 1) conventional farming, 2) conventional
farming with diversified rotation, 3) organic rotation with alfalfa
(Medicago sativa L) as green manure, and 4) organic rotation receiving
37 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1) cattle manure. All the treatments had been managed
for 40 yr except the organic rotation with green manure, which had been
in place for 20 yr. Organic farming increased SOC stock, aggregate
associated SOC, and POM concentrations but only in the 0-15 cm soil
depth. The SOC stock under organic cattle manure system was 19% greater
than under conventional farming (33.1 Mg ha(-1)) and 13% greater than
under conventional farming with diversified rotation (34.8 Mg ha(-1)).
The SOC stock under organic rotation with green manure (36.6 Mg ha(-1))
was 10% greater than in conventional farming. Results suggest that
organic cropping systems accumulated SOC at 0.16 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1) with
cattle manure and 0.18 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1) with green manure. Growing
alfalfa for only two years in the 4-yr organic rotation probably limited
its potential to increase SOC for the whole soil profile. Overall, in
the long term, organic farming increases SOC stock but only in the upper
15 cm of the soil profile







