---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-01-09
modified: 2017-01-09
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #1

<!--more-->


### Stability of peatland carbon to rising temperatures

[Link](http://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms13723) to paper.

Abstract:
Peatlands contain one-third of soil carbon (C), mostly buried in deep,
saturated anoxic zones (catotelm). The response of catotelm C to climate
forcing is uncertain, because prior experiments have focused on surface
warming. We show that deep peat heating of a 2 m-thick peat column
results in an exponential increase in CH4 emissions. However, this
response is due solely to surface processes and not degradation of
catotelm peat. Incubations show that only the top 20-30 cm of peat from
experimental plots have higher CH4 production rates at elevated
temperatures. Radiocarbon analyses demonstrate that CH4 and CO2 are
produced primarily from decomposition of surface-derived modern
photosynthate, not catotelm C. There are no differences in microbial
abundances, dissolved organic matter concentrations or degradative
enzyme activities among treatments. These results suggest that although
surface peat will respond to increasing temperature, the large reservoir
of catotelm C is stable under current anoxic conditions.

### Carbon accounting

[Link](http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v6/n11/full/nclimate3137.html) to paper.


Atmospheric CO2 concentrations are at the highest level for around 15 million years. Accurate accounting is crucial for informed decision-making on how to curb the rise.


### Molecular fingerprint of soil organic matter as an indicator of pedogenesis processes in Technosols

[Link](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11368-016-1523-1) to paper

Abstract:
Technosol management is one of the greatest challenges for the future,
more specifically as regards supporting and/or restoring ecosystems. The
understanding of natural soil organic matter (SOM) dynamic from
Technosol may give important information about soil functioning and
Technosol evolution.According to this, SOM from three French old mine
Technosols, (an old tin mine, a lead and zinc, and a gold one which is
arsenic-rich), were studied and characterized using thermochemolysis
coupled with gas chromatography and mass spectrometry (GC-MS) with
tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide (TMAH) as reagent and FTIR. The
characterization and quantification of some specific biomacromolecules,
used as biomarkers, indicate the specific level of incorporation
relative to various subgroups. Global parameters of soils (pH, total
organic matter, cation exchange capacityaEuro broken vertical bar) were
also evaluated.Results on bulk samples show that lipids are the most
reactive group and therefore play the most important role in young soil
pedogenesis. All of the results show that the behavior of SOM of the
Technosol is similar to homolog non-anthropized soil and depends on
vegetation type.A slight inhibition of bacterial activity is observed
which underlines a protective effect of Technosols on SOM degradation
due to the low pH, the high clay content, and the presence of Al3+ and
metal(loid)s. In fine, lipid fraction of SOM may act as a well-done
fingerprint of pedogenesis processes in Technosols.


### Moisture Stress Indicators in Giant Sequoia Groves in the Southern Sierra Nevada of California, USA

Authors:
Ray, RL

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (10):NIL_15-NIL_33; OCT 2016 

Giant sequoia [Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindl.) J. Buchholz] trees and
their ecosystems are unique natural treasures in the Sierra Nevada,
California, where most groves are federally managed for biodiversity,
perpetuation of the species, and aesthetic, recreational, ecological,
and scientific values. Increasing temperatures during the next several
decades may create conditions unfavorable for these giant sequoias.
Therefore, it is necessary to develop effective management systems to
preserve the health of these giant sequoia groves. This study used a
topographic wetness index (TWI) as the indicator of soil moisture
conditions to evaluate the vulnerability of giant sequoia groves to soil
moisture stress and focused on evaluating TWI distributions among all 70
sequoia groves to assess their vulnerability to soil moisture stress.
The TWI values were derived using a 10-m digital elevation model and
compared with soil, geology, slope, aspect, and elevation at the sequoia
groves to understand the vulnerability of the groves to soil moisture
stress. The TWI values were also compared with snow cover persistence
derived from 12 yr of MODIS snow cover products. In addition, satellite
soil moisture products were used to compare the dry and wet periods
predicted by snow cover persistence. Results showed that the groves
located at higher elevation are less vulnerable unless the TWI across
the groves is low. For the large number of groves with elevations mainly
in the 1800-to 2100-m range, the TWI distributions can serve as a
first-order indicator of relative vulnerability. Further, this analysis
showed that areas with milder slopes and more converging area (higher
TWI), plus longer snow cover persistence, should be less susceptible to
low summer soil moisture than areas having steeper slopes, more
diverging topography (lower TWI), and earlier snowmelt. This analysis
can be used to highlight groves that are potentially more vulnerable,
particularly when considering TWI, snow cover persistence, and satellite
soil moisture together.


### Environmental Change and Human Health: Can Environmental Proxies Inform the Biodiversity Hypothesis for Protective Microbial-Human Contact?

[Link](https://academic.oup.com/bioscience/article/66/12/1023/2646819/Environmental-Change-and-Human-Health-Can) to paper.

Authors:
Liddicoat, C; Waycott, M; Weinstein, P

Source:
*BIOSCIENCE*, 66 (12):1023-1034; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
Microbiota from environmental sources overlap and interact with human
microbiota, contribute to human microbial diversity, and provide
beneficial immunomodulatory stimuli. Meanwhile, reduced diversity in
human microbiota and immune dysregulation have been associated with a
range of diseases. Emerging evidence suggests landscape-scale drivers of
microbial diversity may influence our health, but the area remains
understudied because of its multidisciplinary nature. Here, we attempt
to widen the view on this subject by offering an environmental
researcher's viewpoint, proposing a unifying conceptual framework to
stimulate multidisciplinary interest. To focus research in this
challenging area, we propose greater emphasis on multiscale ecological
links and that landscape-scale proxies for potential underlying
microbial mechanisms be investigated to identify key environmental
attributes and health relationships worthy of subsequent detailed
examination. Wherever possible, ecological epidemiological studies
should account for the temporal nature of environmental microbiota
exposures, especially with respect to the early development of the human
commensal microbiota.



