---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-09-07
modified: 2017-09-07
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #26

* Modelling the interaction of aeolian and fluvial processes with a combined cellular model of sand dunes and river systems
* Satellite-based crop coefficient and evapotranspiration using surface soil moisture and vegetation indices in Northeast Asia
* An overview of current and potential applications of thermal remote sensing in precision agriculture
* Optimal organic carbon values for soil structure quality of arable soils. Does clay content matter?
* Moving beyond presence and absence when examining changes in species distributions
* Phosphorus in agricultural soils: drivers of its distribution at the global scale
* Status and Perspectives on the Cosmic-Ray Neutron Method for Soil Moisture Estimation and Other Environmental Science Applications
* Validation of SMAP surface soil moisture products with core validation sites
* Sensor data fusion for soil health assessment
* Potential contribution of soil diversity and abundance metrics to identifying high nature value farmland (HNV)


















<!--more-->

### Modelling the interaction of aeolian and fluvial processes with a combined cellular model of sand dunes and river systems

Authors:
Liu, B; Coulthard, TJ

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 106 1-9; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
Aeolian and fluvial processes are important agents for shaping the
surface of the Earth, but are largely studied in isolation despite there
being many locations where both processes are acting together and
influencing each other. Using field data to investigate fluvial-aeolian
interactions is, however, hampered by our short length of record and low
temporal resolution of observations. Here we use numerical modelling to
investigate, for the first time, the interplay between aeolian (sand
dunes) and fluvial (river channel) processes. This modelling is carried
out by combining two existing cellular models of aeolian and fluvial
processes that requires considerable consideration of the different
process representation and time stepping used. The result is a fully
coupled (in time and space) sand dune river model. Over a thousand-year
simulation the model shows how the migration of sand dunes is readily
blocked by rivers, yet aeolian processes can push the channel downwind.
Over time cyclic channel avulsions develop indicating that aeolian
action on fluvial systems may play an important part in governing
avulsion frequency, and thus alluvial architecture.


### Satellite-based crop coefficient and evapotranspiration using surface soil moisture and vegetation indices in Northeast Asia

Authors:
Park, J; Baik, J; Choi, M

Source:
*CATENA*, 156 305-314; SEP 2017 

Abstract:
Accurate estimation of the crop coefficient (K-c) is crucial for
estimating actual crop evapotranspiration (ETa) and planning appropriate
irrigation management for efficient crop yield. In this study,
satellite-based K-c values were estimated at cropland and mixed forest
sites based on the dual crop coefficient approach using merged soil
moisture from the European Space Agency as an indicator of evaporation
from soil, as well as the Normalized Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the
Leaf Area Index (LAI) to explain the effect of transpiration from
plants. Comparison of the seasonal patterns and Pearson's correlation
coefficient (r) of NDVI, LAI, and surface soil moisture with K-c
indicated that it was reasonable to use the three variables as
independent variables to estimate K-c. Based on these results, the
satellite -based K-c estimated using NDVI, LAI, and soil moisture (Case
1) was compared with the K-c calculated from NDVI and LAI (Case 2) and
the flux towers at the significance level of 0.05. The statistical
results confirmed that the K-c estimated from Case 1 (Bias: -0.012 to
0.053, RMSE: 0.144 to 0.172, and r: 0.463 to 0.800) showed better
agreement with the observed K-c than that estimated from Case 2 (Bias:
-0.058 to 0.088, RMSE: 0.146 to 0.221, and r: 0.434 to 0.788). Among the
three variables, soil moisture had the greatest impact on the rice
paddy, while the NDVI showed the highest influence on the mixed forest.
Based on these results, K-c estimated from Case 1 was multiplied by
MODerate resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)-based potential
crop evapotranspiration and compared with the latent heat flux from flux
towers. ETa showed reasonable bias (cropland: -0.224 to 1.364, mixed
forest: 0.711 to 1.055), RMSE (cropland: 1.952 to 2.126, mixed forest:
1.085 to 1.878) and r (cropland: 0.529 to 0.832, mixed forest: 0.850 to
0.909) at all of the study sites. After validation of the satellite
-based K-c approach under various vegetation types and climate
conditions, this approach can be employed not only for developing
adequate water and agricultural management plans, but also for analyzing
and predicting crop yield productivity and agricultural drought.

### An overview of current and potential applications of thermal remote sensing in precision agriculture

Authors:
Khanal, S; Fulton, J; Shearer, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 139 22-32; JUN 15 2017 

Abstract:
Precision agriculture (PA) utilizes tools and technologies to identify
in-field soil and crop variability for improving farming practices and
optimizing agronomic inputs. Traditionally, optical remote sensing (RS)
that utilizes visible light and infrared regions of the electromagnetic
spectrum has been used as an integral part of PA for crop and soil
monitoring. Optical RS, however, is slow in differentiating stress
levels in crops until visual symptoms become noticeable. Surface
temperature is considered to be a rapid response variable that can
indicate crop stresses prior to their visual symptoms. By measuring
estimates of surface temperature, thermal RS has been found to be a
promising tool for PA. Compared to optical RS, applications of thermal
RS for PA have been limited. Until recently (i.e., before the
advancement of low cost RS platforms such as unmanned aerial systems
(UAVs)), the availability of high resolution thermal images was limited
due to high acquisition costs. Given recent developments in UAVs,
thermal images with high spatial and temporal resolutions have become
available at a low cost, which has increased opportunities to understand
in-field variability of crop and soil conditions useful for various
agronomic decision-making. Before thermal RS is adopted as a routine
tool for crop and environmental monitoring, there is a need to
understand its current and potential applications as well as issues and
concerns. This review focuses on current and potential applications of
thermal RS in PA as well as some concerns relating to its application.
The application areas of thermal RS in agriculture discussed here
include irrigation scheduling, drought monitoring, crop disease
detection, and mapping of soil properties, residues and tillage, field
tiles, and crop maturity and yield. Some of the issues related to its
application include spatial and temporal resolution, atmospheric
conditions, and crop growth stages. 


### Optimal organic carbon values for soil structure quality of arable soils. Does clay content matter?

Authors:
Johannes, A; Matter, A; Schulin, R; Weisskopf, P; Baveye, PC; Boivin, P

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 302 14-21; SEP 15 2017 

Abstract:
Most soil structure-related physical properties are correlated to soil
organic carbon (SOC) content. Texture, mineralogy, and SOC:clay ratio
are also acknowledged to affect physical properties, however there is no
consensus or general conclusions in this respect. Against this
background, the present study aims at determining objectives for the
management of SOC in terms of structural quality of agricultural soils.
The large area in which 161 free-to-swell undisturbed samples were
obtained for this research represents a major part of the Swiss
agricultural land and belongs to one broad soil group (Cambi-Luvisols).
The structural quality was scored visually, and bulk volumes (inverse of
bulk density) were measured at standard matric potentials. To define the
effect of SOC without interference of soil mechanical degradation, soils
with good structural quality scores were considered first in studying
the relationship between SOC and soil pore volumes. Results suggest that
the relationship is always linear, irrespective of the clay content of
the soils. No optimum of SOC corresponding to a fraction of the clay
content is found, contrary to the theory of "complexed organic carbon"
(Dexter et al., 2008). However, the SOC:clay ratio decreases with
decreasing soil structure quality. The SOC:clay ratio of 1:8 is the
average for a very good structure quality. A SOC:clay ratio of 1:10 is
the limit between good and medium structural quality,, thus it
constitutes a reasonable goal for soil management by farmers. A SOC:clay
ratio of 1:8 or smaller leads to a high probability of poor structural
state. These ratios can be used as criteria for soil structural quality
and SOC management, and in that context, the concept of complexed
organic carbon appears relevant.

### Moving beyond presence and absence when examining changes in species distributions

Authors:
Ashcroft, MB; King, DH; Raymond, B; Turnbull, JD; Wasley, J; Robinson,
SA

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (8):2929-2940; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Species distributions are often simplified to binary representations of
the ranges where they are present and absent. It is then common to look
for changes in these ranges as indicators of the effects of climate
change, the expansion or control of invasive species or the impact of
human land-use changes. We argue that there are inherent problems with
this approach, and more emphasis should be placed on species relative
abundance rather than just presence. The sampling effort required to be
confident of absence is often impractical to achieve, and estimates of
species range changes based on survey data are therefore inherently
sensitive to sampling intensity. Species niches estimated using
presence-absence or presence-only models are broader than those for
abundance and may exaggerate the viability of small marginal sink
populations. We demonstrate that it is possible to transform models of
predicted probability of presence to expected abundance if the sampling
intensity is known. Using case studies of Antarctic mosses and temperate
rain forest trees, we demonstrate additional insights into biotic change
that can be gained using this method. While species becoming locally
extinct or colonising new areas are extreme and obviously important
impacts of global environmental change, changes in abundance could still
signal important changes in biological systems and be an early warning
indicator of larger future changes.

### Phosphorus in agricultural soils: drivers of its distribution at the global scale

Authors:
Ringeval, B; Augusto, L; Monod, H; Van Apeldoorn, D; Bouwman, L; Yang,
XJ; Achat, DL; Chini, LP; Van Oost, K; Guenet, B; Wang, R; Decharme, B;
Nesme, T; Pellerin, S

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (8):3418-3432; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Phosphorus (P) availability in soils limits crop yields in many regions
of the World, while excess of soil P triggers aquatic eutrophication in
other regions. Numerous processes drive the global spatial distribution
of P in agricultural soils, but their relative roles remain unclear.
Here, we combined several global data sets describing these drivers with
a soil P dynamics model to simulate the distribution of P in
agricultural soils and to assess the contributions of the different
drivers at the global scale. We analysed both the labile inorganic P
(PILAB), a proxy of the pool involved in plant nutrition and the total
soil P (PTOT). We found that the soil biogeochemical background
corresponding to P inherited from natural soils at the conversion to
agriculture (BIOG) and farming practices (FARM) were the main drivers of
the spatial variability in cropland soil P content but that their
contribution varied between PTOT vs. PILAB. When the spatial variability
was computed between grid cells at half-degree resolution, we found that
almost all of the PTOT spatial variability could be explained by BIOG,
while BIOG and FARM explained 38% and 63% of PILAB spatial variability,
respectively. Our work also showed that the driver contribution was
sensitive to the spatial scale characterizing the variability (grid cell
vs. continent) and to the region of interest (global vs. tropics for
instance). In particular, the heterogeneity of farming practices between
continents was large enough to make FARM contribute to the variability
in PTOT at that scale. We thus demonstrated how the different drivers
were combined to explain the global distribution of agricultural soil P.
Our study is also a promising approach to investigate the potential
effect of P as a limiting factor for agroecosystems at the global scale.


### Status and Perspectives on the Cosmic-Ray Neutron Method for Soil Moisture Estimation and Other Environmental Science Applications

Authors:
Andreasen, M; Jensen, KH; Desilets, D; Franz, TE; Zreda, M; Bogena, HR;
Looms, MC

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (8):NIL_5-NIL_15; AUG 2017 

Abstract:
Since the introduction of the cosmic-ray neutron method for soil
moisture estimation, numerous studies have been conducted to test and
advance the accuracy of the method. Almost 200 stationary neutron
detector systems have been installed worldwide, and roving systems have
also started to gain ground. The intensity of low-energy neutrons
produced by cosmic rays, measured above the ground surface, is sensitive
to soil moisture in the upper decimeters of the ground within a radius
of hectometers. The method has been proven suitable for estimating soil
moisture for a wide range of land covers and soil types and has been
used for hydrological modeling, data assimilation, and calibration and
validation of satellite products. The method is challenged by the effect
on neutron intensity of other hydrogen pools such as vegetation, canopy
interception, and snow. Identifying the signal of the different pools
can be used to improve the cosmic-ray neutron soil moisture method as
well as extend the application to, e.g., biomass and canopy interception
surveying. More fundamental research is required for advancement of the
method to include more energy ranges and consider multiple height
levels.

### Validation of SMAP surface soil moisture products with core validation sites

Authors:
Colliander, A; Jackson, TJ; Bindlish, R; Chan, S; Das, N; Kim, SB; Cosh,
MH; Dunbar, RS; Dang, L; Pashaian, L; Asanuma, J; Aida, K; Berg, A;
Rowlandson, T; Bosch, D; Caldwell, T; Caylor, K; Goodrich, D; al Jassar,
H; Lopez-Baeza, E; Martinez-Fernandez, J; Gonzalez-Zamora, A;
Livingston, S; McNairn, H; Pacheco, A; Moghaddam, M; Montzka, C;
Notarnicola, C; Niedrist, G; Pellarin, T; Prueger, J; Pulliainen, J;
Rautiainen, K; Ramos, J; Seyfried, M; Starks, P; Su, Z; Zeng, Y; van der
Velde, R; Thibeault, M; Dorigo, W; Vreugdenhil, M; Walker, JP; Wu, X;
Monerris, A; O'Neill, PE; Entekhabi, D; Njoku, EG; Yueh, S

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 191 215-231; MAR 15 2017 

Abstract:
The NASA Soil Moisture Active Passive (SMAP) mission has utilized a set
of core validation sites as the primary methodology in assessing the
soil moisture retrieval algorithm performance. Those sites provide well
calibrated in situ soil moisture measurements within SMAP product grid
pixels for diverse conditions and locations. The estimation of the
average soil moisture within the SMAP product grid pixels based on in
situ measurements is more reliable when location specific calibration of
the sensors has been performed and there is adequate replication over
the spatial domain, with an up-scaling function based on analysis using
independent estimates of the soil moisture distribution. SMAP fulfilled
these requirements through a collaborative Cal/Val Partner program. This
paper presents the results from 34 candidate core validation sites for
the first eleven months of the SMAP mission. As a result of the
screening of the sites prior to the availability of SMAP data, out of
the 34 candidate sites 18 sites fulfilled all the requirements at one of
the resolution scales (at least). The rest of the sites are used as
secondary information in algorithm evaluation. The results indicate that
the SMAP radiometer-based soil moisture data product meets its expected
performance of 0.04 m(3)/m(3) volumetric soil moisture (unbiased root
mean square error); the combined radar-radiometer product is close to
its expected performance of 0.04 m(3)/m(3), and the radar-based product
meets its target accuracy of 0.06 m(3)/m(3) (the lengths of the combined
and radar-based products are truncated to about 10 weeks because of the
SMAP radar failure). Upon completing the intensive Cal/Val phase of the
mission the SMAP project will continue to enhance the products in the
primary and extended geographic domains, in co-operation with the
Cal/Val Partners, by continuing the comparisons over the existing core
validation sites and inclusion of candidate sites that can address
shortcomings. 

### Sensor data fusion for soil health assessment

Authors:
Veum, KS; Sudduth, KA; Kremer, RJ; Kitchen, NR

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 305 53-61; NOV 1 2017 

Abstract:
Assessment of soil health involves determining how well a soil is
performing its biological, chemical, and physical functions relative to
its inherent potential. Due to high cost, labor requirements, and soil
disturbance, traditional laboratory analyses cannot provide high
resolution soil health data. Therefore, sensor-based approaches are
important to facilitate cost-effective, site-specific management for
soil health. In the Central Claypan Region of Missouri, USA, visible and
near-infrared (VNIR) diffuse reflectance spectroscopy has successfully
been used to estimate biological components of soil health as well as
Soil Management Assessment Franiework (SMAF) scores. In contrast,
estimation models for important chemical and physical aspects of soil
health have been less successful with VNIR spectroscopy. The primary
objective of this study was to apply a sensor fusion approach to
estimate soil health indicators and SMAF scores using VNIR spectroscopy
in conjunction with soil apparent electrical conductivity (ECa), and
penetration resistance measured by cone penetrometer (i.e., cone index,
CI). Soil samples were collected from two depths (0-5 and 5-15 cm) at
108 locations within a 10-ha research site encompassing different
cropping systems and landscape positions. Soil health measurements and
VNIR spectral data were obtained in the laboratory, while CI and ECa
data were obtained in situ. Calibration models were developed with
partial least squares (PLS) regression and model performance was
evaluated using coefficient of determination (R-2) and root mean square
error (RMSE). Models integrating ECa and CI with VNIR reflectance data
improved estimates of the overall SMAF score (R-2 = 0.78, RMSE = 7.21%)
relative to VNIR alone (R-2 = 0.69, RMSE = 8.41%), reducing RMSE by 14%.
Improved models were also achieved for estimates of the individual
chemical, biological, and physical soil health scores, demonstrating
reductions in RMSE of 2.8, 5.4, and 10.0%, respectively. The results of
this study illustrate the potential for rapid quantification of soil
health by fusing VNIR sensor data with auxiliary data obtained from
complementary sensors.

### Potential contribution of soil diversity and abundance metrics to identifying high nature value farmland (HNV)

Authors:
Maxwell, D; Robinson, DA; Thomas, A; Jackson, B; Maskell, L; Jones, DL;
Emmett, BA

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 305 417-432; NOV 1 2017 

Abstract:
Identifying and halting the decline of High Nature Value farmland (HNV)
is seen as essential to the EU meeting its 2020 biodiversity targets.
Data on HNV farmland is used to target policy instruments and monitor
changes in HNV to assess policy impact and development. Initial
estimates of HNV land were based on land cover data with limited spatial
resolution. The EU has since taken a distributed approach, allowing
countries to develop their own data and metrics to report on the
presence of HNV land, and changes to it. Land cover type has been the
main data used for reporting but no consistent set of data metrics have
been agreed. Therefore, there is interest in both developing
standardised reporting metrics and identifying land with high
restoration potential to increase the area of HNV land. We explore the
relationship between soil associations and broad habitats across a
member state (Wales) to determine if any discernible patterns exist
between soil and habitat diversity and if soils information might be
useful for identifying areas with high restoration potential. We
developed a set of criteria to identify soil abundance, combining soil
diversity with ecological rare species approaches. The rare (< 1000 ha)
and occasional (1000-10,000 ha) soils identified were associated with
significantly higher levels of habitat diversity than the national
average. We propose that soil diversity information could supplement
habitat information in identifying areas of potential restoration
interest. Two iconic areas of Wales, the Llyn Peninsula and Conwy
Valley, were compared for restoration potential. Soil diversity in both
areas is higher than the national average; habitat diversity was
average, or lower in the case of the Llyn Peninsula. These areas with
higher soil diversity offer greater potential for restoration to type-2
HNV. Soil diversity and habitat diversity were found to be positively
correlated at a national level despite major management modification of
habitats. Given this relationship it is proposed that soil diversity
information offers useful metrics alongside land cover data for
identifying or comparing areas with regard to potential restoration for
HNV.












