---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-04-03
modified: 2017-04-03
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #11

<!--more-->



### Automated detection of geological landforms on Mars using Convolutional Neural Networks

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098300416305532)


Authors:
Palafox, LF; Hamilton, CW; Scheidt, SP; Alvarez, AM

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 101 48-56; APR 2017 

Abstract:
The large volume of high-resolution images acquired by the Mars
Reconnaissance Orbiter has opened a new frontier for developing
automated approaches to detecting landforms on the surface of Mars.
However, most landform classifiers focus on crater detection, which
represents only one of many geological landforms of scientific interest.
In this work, we use Convolutional Neural Networks (ConvNets) to detect
both volcanic rootless cones and transverse aeolian ridges. Our system,
named MarsNet, consists of five networks, each of which is trained to
detect landforms of different sizes. We compare our detection algorithm
with a widely used method for image recognition, Support Vector Machines
(SVMs) using Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) features. We show
that ConvNets can detect a wide range of landforms and has better
accuracy and recall in testing data than traditional classifiers based
on SVMs.



### Modeling Soil Processes: Review, Key Challenges, and New Perspectives

[Online Link](http://vzj.geoscienceworld.org/content/15/5/vzj2015.09.0131)

Authors:
Vereecken, H; Schnepf, A; Hopmans, JW; Javaux, M; Or, D; Roose, DOT;
Vanderborght, J; Young, MH; Amelung, W; Aitkenhead, M; Allison, SD;
Assouline, S; Baveye, P; Berli, M; Bruggemann, N; Finke, P; Flury, M;
Gaiser, T; Govers, G; Ghezzehei, T; Hallett, P; Franssen, HJH; Heppell,
J; Horn, R; Huisman, JA; Jacques, D; Jonard, F; Kollet, S; Lafolie, F;
Lamorski, K; Leitner, D; McBratney, A; Minasny, B; Montzka, C; Nowak, W;
Pachepsky, Y; Padarian, J; Romano, N; Roth, K; Rothfuss, Y; Rowe, EC;
Schwen, A; Simunek, J; Tiktak, A; Van Dam, J; van der Zee, SEATM; Vogel,
HJ; Vrugt, JA; Wohling, T; Young, IM

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (5):NIL_32-NIL_88; MAY 2016 

Abstract:
The remarkable complexity of soil and its importance to a wide range of
ecosystem services presents major challenges to the modeling of soil
processes. Although major progress in soil models has occurred in the
last decades, models of soil processes remain disjointed between
disciplines or ecosystem services, with considerable uncertainty
remaining in the quality of predictions and several challenges that
remain yet to be addressed. First, there is a need to improve exchange
of knowledge and experience among the different disciplines in soil
science and to reach out to other Earth science communities. Second, the
community needs to develop a new generation of soil models based on a
systemic approach comprising relevant physical, chemical, and biological
processes to address critical knowledge gaps in our understanding of
soil processes and their interactions. Overcoming these challenges will
facilitate exchanges between soil modeling and climate, plant, and
social science modeling communities. It will allow us to contribute to
preserve and improve our assessment of ecosystem services and advance
our understanding of climate-change feedback mechanisms, among others,
thereby facilitating and strengthening communication among scientific
disciplines and society. We review the role of modeling soil processes
in quantifying key soil processes that shape ecosystem services, with a
focus on provisioning and regulating services. We then identify key
challenges in modeling soil processes, including the systematic
incorporation of heterogeneity and uncertainty, the integration of data
and models, and strategies for effective integration of knowledge on
physical, chemical, and biological soil processes. We discuss how the
soil modeling community could best interface with modern modeling
activities in other disciplines, such as climate, ecology, and plant
research, and how to weave novel observation and measurement techniques
into soil models. We propose the establishment of an international soil
modeling consortium to coherently advance soil modeling activities and
foster communication with other Earth science disciplines. Such a
consortium should promote soil modeling platforms and data repository
for model development, calibration and intercomparison essential for
addressing contemporary challenges.


### A consistent ecosystem services valuation method based on Total Economic Value and Equivalent Value Factors: A case study in the Sanjiang Plain, Northeast China

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1476945X16301131)

Authors:
Zhang, L; Yu, X; Jiang, M; Xue, Z; Lu, X; Zou, Y

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 29 40-48; MAR 2017 

Abstract:
In this study, a regional revision coefficient is proposed for the
Equivalent Value Factors to better valuate the Sanjiang Plain (in China)
ecosystem services. An index system suitable for the valuation of the
ecosystem services in the Sanjiang Plain is established. The proposed
method can realize the rapid valuation of nine ecosystem service types
of six different terrestrial ecosystems. Through the preliminary
application of the method, the calculated total value of ecosystem
services of the Sanjiang Plain in 2010 was 510.89 billion yuan, of which
the forest ecosystem contributed to 37.85%, followed by water bodies and
wetland ecosystems. The variations among the contributions of the
different ecosystem services are considerable. The contribution
attributed to regulation function was the highest, especially the value
from the hydrological regulation (36.17%) and climate regulation
(16.04%). The Total Economic Value (TEV) method and the Equivalent Value
Factors (EVF) method are compared in this study. Results show that
Equivalent Value Factors derived value of the Sanjiang Plain ecosystem
services is slightly lower than the value obtained by the Total Economic
Value method, i.e., 537.84 billion yuan, of which the total value of the
Feature Services has reached as high as 38.35 billion yuan. 


### Changing views of nitrous oxide emissions from agricultural soil: key controlling processes and assessment at different spatial scales

[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.12409/abstract)



Authors:
Smith, KA

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (2):137-155; MAR 2017 

Abstract:
Nitrous oxide, N2O, is the third most important of the long-lived
greenhouse gases, in terms of its contribution to global warming, and is
expected to be the dominant cause of stratospheric ozone depletion this
century. The concentration of N2O in the atmosphere was fairly constant
until the beginning of the industrial age, but has gone up by 20% since.
This is because of increased anthropogenic emissions, of which about 60%
come from agricultural soil. The cause is the increased use of synthetic
fertilizer nitrogen globally to meet the demands for increased
production of food and biofuels. This review examines the isotopic
evidence for this role of fertilizer N, the main mechanisms for
microbial production of N2O in soil, the key soil physical and other
variables that greatly affect the magnitude of emissions, and the
spatial and temporal variation in emissions and the associated problems
of measurement. The review also considers the methodology devised by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to enable countries to
compile national inventories of their emissions, direct and indirect,
that arise from anthropogenic activity related to agriculture and land
use. This methodology also enables modellers to make bottom-up' global
estimates of N2O emissions. These estimates agree quite well at the
global scale with top-down' estimates based on the relation between
reactive nitrogen newly introduced into agricultural ecosystems and
increases in the global atmospheric concentration of N2O, but not with
some recent regional-scale emission measurements. The discrepancy may be
related to problems of estimating indirect emissions. Top-down estimates
indicate that N2O emissions from crop-based biofuels are too great to
comply with national and international environmental regulations.
Finally, possible future trends in emissions and possible mitigation
measures are discussed.


### Are data collected to support farm management suitable for monitoring soil indicators at the national scale?

[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.12417/full)

Authors:
Rawlins, BG; Marchant, B; Stevenson, S; Wilmer, W

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (2):235-248; MAR 2017 

Abstract:
Monitoring of topsoil properties (referred to as indicators) at the
national scale has been limited in general to government-funded
representative surveys. We consider a cost-effective complementary
source of soil information for monitoring agricultural soil across
England and Wales (E&W): soil measurements paid for by farmers that we
refer to as farmers' data (FD). A potential problem in using FD for soil
monitoring is any unattributable sources of bias, such as the sample
design. Farmers may choose to focus their measurements (purposively)
where they perceive a particular problem. Such a source of bias is
avoided in the random sampling adopted by statistically designed
surveys, such as the Countryside Survey (CS2007) and LUCAS (Land
Use/Cover Area frame statistical Survey). We used measurements from 143
000 FD soil samples from a single laboratory to estimate national mean
values and confidence intervals of five topsoil indicators (pH,
available P (Olsen), K, Mg and organic matter (OM)) across three
combinations of nation (England or Wales) and land use (arable and
horticulture (A&H) or improved grassland (IG)). We computed mean
estimates for FD over two time periods (2004-9 and 2010-2105) and
assessed the significance of any change. We compared these estimates
with those from representative national surveys to establish whether
there was evidence for bias and whether it could be explained. Mean
estimates of topsoil pH for the FD and the LUCAS survey (same analytical
method) were consistent for both A&H and IG. Although FD estimates of
mean Olsen P (OP) concentrations were similar to previous surveys, we
show it is likely that the larger mean OP concentrations observed in the
LUCAS survey compared with FD for arable topsoil in England are partly
due to an attributable source of analytical bias. For such quantifiable
sources of bias, it might be possible to adjust estimated mean values
from FD. However, FD might also include sources of unattributable bias,
such as the effect of purposive sampling. It is important that
contemporaneous data from surveys with statistically unbiased designs
are available so that we can assess whether unattributable sources exert
a significant effect over estimates of mean values computed from FD.



