---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-04-03
modified: 2017-04-03
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #10

<!--more-->


### An interactive image segmentation method for lithological boundary detection: A rapid mapping tool for geologists

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098300416307579)

Authors:
Vasuki, Y; Holden, EJ; Kovesi, P; Micklethwaite, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 100 27-40; MAR 2017 

Abstract:
Large volumes of images are collected by geoscientists using remote
sensing platforms. Manual analysis of these images is a time consuming
task and there is a need for fast and robust image interpretation tools.
In particular the reliable mapping of lithological boundaries is a
critical step for geological interpretation. In this contribution we
developed an interactive image segmentation algorithm that harnesses the
geologist's input and exploits automated image analysis to provide a
practical tool for Ethology boundary detection, using photographic
images of rock surfaces.In the proposed method, the user is expected to
draw rough markings to indicate the locations of different geological
units in the image. Image segmentation is performed by segmenting
regions based on their homogeneity in colour. This results in a high
density of segmented regions which are then iteratively merged based on
the colour of different geological units and the user input. Finally, a
post-processing step allows the user to edit the boundaries.An
experiment was conducted using photographic rock surface images
collected by a UAV and a handheld digital camera. The proposed technique
was applied to detect lithology boundaries. It was found that the
proposed method reduced the interpretation time by a factor of four
relative to manual segmentation, while achieving more than 96%
similarity in boundary detection. As a result the proposed method has
the potential to provide practical support for interpreting large volume
of complex geological images.


### Soil porosity in physically separated fractions and its role in SOC protection

[Online Link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11368-016-1508-0)

Authors:
Simonetti, G; Francioso, O; Dal Ferro, N; Nardi, S; Berti, A; Morari, F

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 17 (1):70-84; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
Purpose Processes that lead to soil organic carbon (SOC) protection
depend on both soil porosity and structure organization, as well as
chemical and biological properties. In particular, the soil micro-nano
porosity (<30 mu m) regulates microorganism accessibility to the soil
pore system and offers surfaces for organic carbon adsorption and
intercalation into soil minerals. The aim of this work was to
investigate how pore size distribution can selectively protect specific
carbon pools in different aggregate size fractions, by considering the
effects of long-term application of farmyard manure (FYM) and mineral
(Min) fertilization.Materials and methods Macroaggregates (250-2000 mu
m), microaggregates (53-250 mu m), and silt-clay (<53 mu m) fractions of
three different soils (clayey, peaty, and sandy) were separated by wet
sieving technique and then subjected to chemical and physical analysis.
Sample porosity and pore size distribution were analyzed using mercury
intrusion porosimetry (MIP), while SOC chemical structure was
characterized by means of nuclear magnetic resonance (C-13
cross-polarization-magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic reso-nance (CP
MAS C-13 NMR)) and diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform
(DRIFT) spectroscopies.Results and discussion Results showed that FYM
increased organic (OC) and humic carbon (HC) content compared to the Min
fertilization and unfertilized soils. However, it caused a gradual
decrease in O,N-alkyl C, and alkyl C of humic C from macroaggregate to
silt-clay fractions, suggesting an advanced state of humic component
degradation as revealed by CP MAS C-13 NMR, DRIFT analyses. MIP analysis
showed a clear increase of micropores (5-30 mu m) and cryptopores
(0.0035-0.1 mu m) from macroaggregate to silt-clay fractions, while
minor differences were observed among the treatments. The application of
principal component analysis to mineral soil fractions identified the
formation of three main clusters, where (i) macroaggregates of clayey
soil were mainly associated to cryptopores and OC and (ii)
microaggregates and silt-clay fraction were mainly isolated by carbonyl
C, ultramicropores, and total porosity. The third cluster was associated
with medium and fine sand of the sand soil fraction as coupled with O,
N-alkyl C, anomeric C, mesopores, and HC/OC ratio.Conclusions Overall,
this study indicates that pore size distribution may be a valuable
indicator of soil capacity to sequester carbon, due to its direct
influence on SOC linkages with soil aggregates and the positive effects
against SOC decomposition phenomena. In this context, micropore- to
nanopore-dominated structures (e.g., clayey soil) were able to protect
OC compounds by interacting with mineral surfaces and intercalation with
phyllosilicates, while meso/macropore-dominated structures (i.e., sandy
soil) exhibited their low ability to protect the organic components.



### Soil Moisture Remote Sensing: State-of-the-Science

[Online Link](https://dl.sciencesocieties.org/publications/vzj/pdfs/16/1/vzj2016.10.0105)


Authors:
Mohanty, BP; Cosh, MH; Lakshmi, V; Montzka, C

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (1):NIL_36-NIL_44; JAN 2017 

Abstract:
This is an update to the special section "Remote Sensing for Vadose Zone
Hydrology-A Synthesis from the Vantage Point" [Vadose Zone Journal
12(3)]. Satellites (e.g., Soil Moisture Active Passive [SMAP] and Soil
Moisture and Ocean Salinity [SMOS]) using passive microwave techniques,
in particular at L-band frequency, have shown good promise for global
mapping of near-surface (0-5-cm) soil moisture at a spatial resolution
of 25 to 40 km and temporal resolution of 2 to 3 d. C- and X-band soil
moisture records date back to 1978, making available an invaluable data
set for long-term climate research. Near-surface soil moisture is
further extended to the root zone (top 1 m) using process-based models
and data assimilation schemes. Validation of remotely sensed soil
moisture products has been ongoing using core monitoring sites, sparse
monitoring networks, intensive field campaigns, as well as
multi-satellite comparison studies. To transfer empirical observations
across space and time scales and to develop improved retrieval
algorithms at various resolutions, several efforts are underway to
associate soil moisture variability dynamics with land surface
attributes in various energy-and water-rich environments. We describe
the most recent scientific and technological advances in soil moisture
remote sensing. We anticipate that remotely sensed soil moisture will
find many applications in vadose zone hydrology in the coming decades.

### SENose: An under U$50 electronic nose for the monitoring of soil gas emissions

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916304070)

Authors:
Pineda, DM; Perez, JC

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 133 15-21; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Tropical soils are major players on CO2 emissions and C cycling on
earth. However, it is in tropical countries where scientists can have
the most limited access to analytical tools needed for research on these
processes. This paper describes the construction and test of a less than
US 50 chamber for monitoring of multiple soil gas emissions. The system
consisted on an array of three MQ series gas sensors placed into an
airtight container, a PIC microcontroller and a custom-built software
developed for data capture and visualization running on a laptop. A
modified multiplexing of sensors was also incorporated in order to allow
the parallel analysis in up to eight samples. The chamber, hereafter
called SENose (short for Soil Electric Nose), was tested in two separate
experiments. The first study used the three sensor array system in soil
samples from Colombia and Ecuador, which were separated into two groups
in order to study their gas emission patterns in D(+) glucose induced
respiration tests. For a second experiment using a multiplexed sensor
array in a different set of Colombian soil samples, gas emission
patterns were obtained from autoclaved soil with reduced microbial
activity, which were further contaminated with diesel oil as C
source.During the first study, in replicated 22 h continuous runs SENose
clearly showed differences in soil respiration patterns of these soil
samples, and a prominent timing differential increase in gas production
after spiking D(+) glucose, a proxy for organic C, as a substrate.
Results of the second study showed a clearly different pattern of gas
emissions in diesel oil contaminated samples, when microbial activity
was reduced by soil autoclaving. Moreover, two groups of non-autoclaved
soil subsamples differing only in diesel oil addition could also be
differentiated with basis on their respiration patterns after some hours
of gas tracking. Based on these results we foresee a great potential
from the use of this low cost system in fields such as soil
microbiology, fertility, biotechnology and environmental sciences, where
processes such as microbial activity, plant nutrient availability or
soil pollutant turnover are tracked by monitoring their gas emission
patterns. 


### Studying drought phenomena in the Continental United States in 2011 and 2012 using various drought indices

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716304813)

Authors:
Zhang, LF; Jiao, WZ; Zhang, HM; Huang, CP; Tong, QX

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 190 96-106; MAR 1 2017 

Abstract:
Numerous drought indices have been developed to monitor drought
conditions. However, different drought indices have differing
characteristics, and are suitable for specific environments. The aim of
this study was to compare the occurrence of drought, as detected by
remote sensing across the Continental United States (CONUS). We used
drought events during 2011 and 2012 to compare various indices developed
for the study of drought phenomena. Three in situ drought indices, the
Palmer drought severity index (PDSI), Z-index and standardized
precipitation indices (SPI) with different time scales were used to
evaluate drought conditions in different climate divisions. The drought
indices compared in this study include the vegetation condition index
(VCI), the temperature condition index (TCI), the perpendicular drought
index (PDI) and modified PDI (MPDI) derived from moderate-resolution
imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, the precipitation condition
index (PCI) derived from tropical rainfall measuring mission (TRMM)
data, and the soil moisture condition index (SMCI) derived from advanced
microwave scanning radiometer - earth observing system (AMSR-E). Other
synthesized drought indices, which combine indices such as VCI, TCI,
SMCI and PCI, were also compared in this study. These included the
vegetation health index (VHI), temperature vegetation dryness index
(TVDI), scaled drought condition index (SDCI), the microwave integrated
drought index (MIDI), the synthesized drought index (SDI), the optimized
meteorological drought index (OMDI), and the optimized vegetation
drought index (OVDI). The results include a wide variety of drought
conditions based on different drought indices. Meteorological drought
indices indicated that more regions were under severe drought than
agricultural drought indices did. Drought indices appear to be more
similar to standard drought indices than PDI, MPDI and TVDI. The results
also indicate that different indices have strengths and weaknesses in
different climates across CONUS. SMCI has a good correlation with
short-term SPI, and the sensitivity of SMCI is strongly dependent on
terrain, as it performs worse in regions with heavy tree cover than in
regions with a low density of vegetation. TCI, VCI, PDI and MPDI are
more similar to 3-month SPI data, but correlate weakly with
station-based indices located in areas of high precipitation, higher
soil permeability, large-scale agriculture and forests. PCI is more
strongly correlated with short-term drought conditions in almost all
climate divisions than other single indices. VCI would be more reliable
if there were only red and NIR surface reflectance bands available,
while VHI would be a better choice if only NDVI and LST data were
available. Condition index-based drought indices (PCI, TCI, VCI, SMCI,
VHI, SDCI, SDCI, MIDI, OVDI, OMDI) performed better than other
categories of drought indices, and the use of time series analysis may
be a contributing factor to this difference in performance.


### Bayesian updating of land-cover estimates in a data-rich environment

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716303248)

Authors:
Cardille, JA; Fortin, JA

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 186 234-249; DEC 1 2016 

Abstract:
Since the opening of the Landsat archive, the availability of remote
sensing data has increased dramatically, and algorithms that can
interpret large time series of satellite imagery are in rapid
development as additions to the decades of interpretation of
remotely-sensed images. To date, processing of these massive data
repositories has focused mostly on tracing forest growth and loss across
very large areas within pre-defined study periods. Despite these very
considerable advances, there is a need for methodology that could allow
analysts to use their own specific land-cover categories of interest,
and update existing land-cover classifications either forward or
backward to a desired point in time. Here we demonstrate an algorithm
(Bayesian Updating of Land-Cover, or BULC) developed for the continuous
updating of land-cover classifications through time in large data sets.
The BULC algorithm is designed to permit users to build new
classifications or update existing classifications based on long streams
of imagery, but with minimal storage and memory requirements. The
algorithm ingests a sequence of classified land-cover data for a
user-specified set of detectable classes, and maintains a continually
updated estimate of land-cover probabilities and the most probable class
at all time points along the sequence. We tested this algorithm in
central Quebec with Landsat 8 imagery for summer 2013, when a series of
large fires erupted and burned through forests. In this very dynamic
setting, many of the summer's images were contaminated by ordinary
standards, yet parts of the region could be seen through the clouds,
smoke, and haze of each image. Across 11 dates of widely varying
quality, BULC tracked the fires, ignored contaminated image information,
and mapped fire borders consistently throughout the summer, autumn, and
subsequent winter and spring. Building on images having a median
accuracy of 78% and 8% NoData, the BULC algorithm created 11 sequenced
land-cover maps each having more than 90% overall accuracy and covering
the entire study area. BULC's classifications mapped each of the
land-cover categories with user's and producer's accuracies that
compared well to the best individual images used as input, while
accurately tracking land-cover change that occurred between those
infrequent clear images. As we leave remote sensing's data-poor era and
enter a period with many images of Earth's surface supplied by multiple
sensors over a short period of time, the BULC algorithm may help to sift
through images of varying quality to extract the most useful information
for mapping time series of land-cover classifications. 


### Comparison of remotely sensed and modelled soil moisture data sets across Australia

[Online Link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716303583)

Authors:
Holgate, CM; De Jeu, RAM; van Dijk, AIJM; Liu, YY; Renzullo, LJ;
Vinodkumar; Dharssi, I; Parinussa, RM; Van der Schalie, R; Gevaert, A;
Walker, J; McJannet, D; Cleverly, J; Haverd, V; Trudinger, CM; Briggs,
PR

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 186 479-500; DEC 1 2016 

Abstract:
This study compared surface soil moisture from 11 separate remote
sensing and modelled products across Australia in a common framework.
The comparison was based on a correlation analysis between soil moisture
products and in situ data collated from three separate ground-based
networks: OzFlux, OzNet and CosmOz. The correlation analysis was
performed using both original data sets and temporal anomalies, and was
supported by examination of the time series plots. The
interrelationships between the products were also explored using cluster
analyses. The products considered in this study include: Soil Moisture
Ocean Salinity (SMOS; both Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM) and
L-band Microwave Emission of the Biosphere (LMEB) algorithms), Advanced
Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2; both LPRM and Japan Aerospace
Exploration Agency (JAXA) algorithms) and Advanced Scatterometer (ASCAT)
satellite-based products, and WaterDyn, Australian Water Resource
Assessment Landscape (AWRA-L), Antecedent Precipitation Index (API),
Keetch-Byram Drought Index (KBDI), Mount's Soil Dryness Index (MSDI) and
CABLE/BIOS2 model based products. The comparison of the satellite and
model data sets showed variation in their ability to reflect in situ
soil moisture conditions across Australia owing to individual product
characteristics. The comparison showed the satellite products yielded
similar ranges of correlation coefficients, with the possible exception
of AMSR2 JAXA. SMOS (both algorithms) achieved slightly better agreement
with in situ measurements than the alternative satellite products
overall. Among the models, WaterDyn yielded the highest correlation most
consistently across the different locations and climate zones
considered. All products displayed, a weaker performance in estimating
soil moisture anomalies than the original data sets (i.e. the absolute
values), showing all products to be more effective in detecting
interannual and seasonal soil moisture dynamics rather than individual
events. Using cluster analysis we found satellite products generally
grouped together, whereas models were more similar to other models. SMOS
(based on LMEB algorithm and ascending overpass) and ASCAT (descending
overpass) were found to be very similar to each other in terms of their
temporal soil moisture dynamics, whereas AMSR2 (based on LPRM algorithm
and descending overpass) and AMSR2 (based on JAXA algorithm and
ascending overpass) were dissimilar. Of the model products, WaterDyn and
CABLE were similar to each other, as were the API/AWRA-L and KBDI/MSDI
pairs. The clustering suggests systematic commonalities in error
structure and duplication of information may exist between products.
This evaluation has highlighted relative strengths, weaknesses, and
complementarities between products, so the drawbacks of each may be
minimised through a more informed assessment of fitness for purpose by
end users. 


### Litter decay controlled by temperature, not soil properties, affecting future soil carbon

[Online Link](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.13502/full)

Authors:
Gregorich, EG; Janzen, H; Ellert, BH; Helgason, BL; Qian, BD; Zebarth,
BJ; Angers, DA; Beyaert, RP; Drury, CF; Duguid, SD; May, WE; McConkey,
BG; Dyck, MF

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (4):1725-1734; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Widespread global changes, including rising atmospheric CO2
concentrations, climate warming and loss of biodiversity, are predicted
for this century; all of these will affect terrestrial ecosystem
processes like plant litter decomposition. Conversely, increased plant
litter decomposition can have potential carbon-cycle feedbacks on
atmospheric CO2 levels, climate warming and biodiversity. But predicting
litter decomposition is difficult because of many interacting factors
related to the chemical, physical and biological properties of soil, as
well as to climate and agricultural management practices. We applied
C-13-labelled plant litter to soil at ten sites spanning a 3500-km
transect across the agricultural regions of Canada and measured its
decomposition over five years. Despite large differences in soil type
and climatic conditions, we found that the kinetics of litter
decomposition were similar once the effect of temperature had been
removed, indicating no measurable effect of soil properties. A two-pool
exponential decay model expressing undecomposed carbon simply as a
function of thermal time accurately described kinetics of decomposition.
(R-2 = 0.94; RMSE = 0.0508). Soil properties such as texture, cation
exchange capacity, pH and moisture, although very different among sites,
had minimal discernible influence on decomposition kinetics. Using this
kinetic model under different climate change scenarios, we projected
that the time required to decompose 50% of the litter (i.e. the labile
fractions) would be reduced by 1-4 months, whereas time required to
decompose 90% of the litter (including recalcitrant fractions) would be
reduced by 1 year in cooler sites to as much as 2 years in warmer sites.
These findings confirm quantitatively the sensitivity of litter
decomposition to temperature increases and demonstrate how climate
change may constrain future soil carbon storage, an effect apparently
not influenced by soil properties.


### Exploratory Assessment of Aerial Gamma Radiometrics across the Conterminous United States

[Online Link](https://dl.sciencesocieties.org/publications/sssaj/pdfs/81/1/94)

Authors:
Rouze, GS; Morgan, CLS; McBratney, AB; Neely, HL

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (1):94-108; JAN-FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Gamma radiometrics have recently been connected with soil properties at
field scales (10 m) and thus may have potential to characterize soil
across regional scales using data from preexisting aerial surveys.
However, the relationship between gamma radiometrics and soil properties
across these larger spatial extents (100-1000 km) has been largely
unexplored, particularly within the United States. Thus, the overall
purpose of this work was to test the effectiveness of aerial gamma
radiometrics in modeling soil properties across the conterminous United
States. After discovering that up to 19% of aerial gamma radiometric
variability could be explained by variations in physiography and parent
material type, linear regression models were created between soil
properties (clay and sand contents, cation exchange capacity, CaCO3
equivalent, and pH) and aerial gamma dose rate based on physiography and
parent material type. Overall, aerial gamma radiometrics was most
frequently suitable for mapping clay content within flat landscapes of
unconsolidated and sedimentary parent materials. Suitability maps for
all investigated soil properties are presented. The importance of aerial
gamma radiometrics relative to other covariates was then assessed. The
predictive power of aerial g radiometrics, relative to other covariates,
was mixed due to a non-optimized sampling scheme. Results suggest that
aerial gamma radiometrics can be useful in predicting soil properties
across large spatial extents after considering both physiography and
parent material type. However, a true assessment of the utility of
aerial gamma radiometrics across the United States requires a soil
sampling strategy that represents its feature space.












