---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-02-08
modified: 2017-02-08
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #4

<!--more-->


### Exploring the biophysical option space for feeding the world without deforestation

[online link](http://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms11382)

Authors:
Erb, KH; Lauk, C; Kastner, T; Mayer, A; Theurl, MC; Haberl, H

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 7 11382-11382; APR 19 2016 

Abstract:
Safeguarding the world's remaining forests is a high-priority goal. We
assess the biophysical option space for feeding the world in 2050 in a
hypothetical zero-deforestation world. We systematically combine
realistic assumptions on future yields, agricultural areas, livestock
feed and human diets. For each scenario, we determine whether the supply
of crop products meets the demand and whether the grazing intensity
stays within plausible limits. We find that many options exist to meet
the global food supply in 2050 without deforestation, even at low
crop-yield levels. Within the option space, individual scenarios differ
greatly in terms of biomass harvest, cropland demand and grazing
intensity, depending primarily on the quantitative and qualitative
aspects of human diets. Grazing constraints strongly limit the option
space. Without the option to encroach into natural or semi-natural land,
trade volumes will rise in scenarios with globally converging diets,
thereby decreasing the food self-sufficiency of many developing regions.



### Hydropedology and the Societal Challenge of Realizing the 2015 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

[online link](http://vzj.geoscienceworld.org/content/15/12/vzj2016.09.0080)

Authors:
Bouma, J

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (12):NIL_57-NIL_63; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) offer a major challenge for
both society and the science community. Hydropedology, combining the
expertise of soil physicists and pedologists, plays a key role in
realizing goals focused on food, water, climate, and ecology, requiring
interdisciplinary research. This update explores emerging trends and
future work, focusing on examples of contributions by pedology to
measuring and modeling in hydropedological studies. Many soil types
create heterogeneous flow patterns that are difficult to characterize
using current soil databases and physical flow models. The clear
potential of hydropedology to produce better modeling results than those
obtained from separate contributions by the two subdisciplines can,
however, only be established by field validation of modeling results
using different types of data and models. Overall soil input in
interdisciplinary SDG-oriented research includes chemical and biological
aspects that become more representative by considering hydropedological
conditions.



### Processes and Modeling of Initial Soil and Landscape Development: A Review

[online link](http://vzj.geoscienceworld.org/content/15/12/vzj2016.05.0048)

Authors:
Maurer, T; Gerke, HH

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 15 (12):NIL_3-NIL_30; DEC 2016 

Abstract:
The development pathway of a landscape depends to a degree on the
initial spatial distributions of mineral and organic components. The
interaction between structures and ecohydrological processes during the
critical initial development period is scarcely understood and often
difficult to observe. While viable modeling approaches exist for most
aspects of initial development (e.g., landscape evolution, vegetation
succession), a deeper understanding of the prevailing feedback
mechanisms requires a comprehensive, integrated modeling approach. We
present a review of the current literature regarding the description of
initial structures, the state-of-the-art of research on
structure-forming processes and their interaction with existing and
newly emerging structures, as well as the corresponding modeling
efforts. The most relevant aspects are (i) sediment translocation
processes and initial evolution of topography, (ii) surface crusting,
(iii) vegetation succession, and (iv) the evolution of the soil pore
space. Based on existing conceptions for integrated modeling of the
coevolution of structures and ecohydrological behavior, we outline an
integrative modeling framework that is based on a three-dimensional
spatial structural model of initial sediment distributions, which can be
used to: (i) analyze the spatiotemporal development dynamics depending
on initial structures; and (ii) relate the simulated structural
development to available observations of initial ecohydrological
development. We discuss possible validation and generalization
strategies of modeling results, and propose to define three-dimensional
spatial functional catchment units (process domains) characterized by
specific structural dynamics and the dominant ecohydrological processes.





