---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-05-03
modified: 2017-05-03
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #13

<!--more-->



### Soil-like bodies on Mars

Authors:
Targulian, VO; Mergelov, NS; Goryachkin, SV

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (2):185-197; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Soils sensu stricto are absent on Mars; most probably, they have never
been formed there, because, up to now, we have no evidence of the
presence of life, either relict or recent, on this planet. Numerous
references to "Martian soils" in scientific literature concern loose
substrates rather than Dokuchaev's soils. In this context, surface
bodies on Mars can be described using the concept of planetary shells,
or exons. Exons can be subdivided into sitons formed via in situ
transformation of parent material, transons formed in the course of
lateral transportation and deposition of substances, and transsitons
formed by the combination of both in situ and lateral processes. Among
Martian exons, transons predominate. They represent loose sediments of
mainly eolian genesis related to extremely strong winds. Soil-like
bodies (soloids) on Mars are represented by sitons and transsitons.
These are abiotic formations having the profiles differentiated by the
contents of iron oxides, soluble salts, and clay minerals and mainly
formed in the presence of liquid water during the paleohumid eras of
Mars evolution more than 2.5/3 billion years ago. True deep sitons
(Martian weathering mantles) could only be formed under the impact of
long-term weathering on stable surfaces during humid eras. Then, they
were either buried by later deposited sediments, or eroded. Up to now,
such objects have not been discovered on Mars.


### Short-range variation in a Wisconsin soilscape (USA)

Authors:
Hartemink, AE; Gennadiyev, AN; Bockheim, JG; Bero, N

Source:
*EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE*, 50 (2):198-209; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
Here we report on the variation of a soilscape in south central
Wisconsin, USA. The variation in soil properties and soil features
results in four soil order (Entisols, Inceptisols, Alfisols and
Mollisols). Observations were made along a 200 m transect in a field
that was cultivated since 1870. Slopes ranged from 7.5% on the back
slope to 0% in the lower part. The soilscape had a total relief
difference of 7.0 m. The soils were studied by 41 soil pits (60 cm), 6
soil pits (125 cm), 15 soil augers (100 cm), and ground-penetrating
radar imagery. The summit and shoulder consist of coarse glacial outwash
(loamy sands) over limestone whereas the lower part is lacustrine
sediments over coarse outwash (loams, silty loams). The A-horizon
thickness ranged from 14 to 52 cm with thick A horizons at the toeslope
that also had the lowest soil pH. The soil organic carbon (SOC) contents
of the A horizons ranged from 11.6 to 46.9 g C kg(-1), and the higher
contents are in the lower part of the soilscape. SOC stocks (0-20 cm
depth) ranged from 50 to 70 Mg C ha(-1) on the summit and backslope, but
were 80 to 95 Mg C ha(-1) in the flat part of the soilscape. The lowest
soybean yields (1.6 Mg ha(-1)) were found at the summit and the highest
yield (6.3 Mg ha(-1)) at the lower end of the backslope. Soybean yields
were correlated to the thickness of the A horizon, and every 10 cm
increase in A horizon thickness yielded an extra 0.6 Mg soybeans ha(-1).
Analysis of spherical magnetic particles was used to estimate soil
erosion rates that were highest on the backslope (16.2 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1))
and rates of soil deposition in the lowest part of the soilscape was
18.8 Mg ha(P1) yr(-1). It seems that there is no net soil and SOC loss
within this soilscape. All in all, we found 4 soil taxonomic orders
within 200 m. The variation in this soilscape was substantial and
probably enhanced by 140 years of cultivation.


### Dust outpaces bedrock in nutrient supply to montane forest ecosystems

Authors:
Aciego, SM; Riebe, CS; Hart, SC; Blakowski, MA; Carey, CJ; Aarons, SM;
Dove, NC; Botthoff, JK; Sims, KWW; Aronson, EL

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 14800-14800; MAR 28 2017 

Abstract:
Dust provides ecosystem-sustaining nutrients to landscapes underlain by
intensively weathered soils. Here we show that dust may also be crucial
in montane forest ecosystems, dominating nutrient budgets despite
continuous replacement of depleted soils with fresh bedrock via erosion.
Strontium and neodymium isotopes in modern dust show that Asian sources
contribute 18-45% of dust deposition across our Sierra Nevada,
California study sites. The remaining dust originates regionally from
the nearby Central Valley. Measured dust fluxes are greater than or
equal to modern erosional outputs from hillslopes to channels, and
account for 10-20% of estimated millennial-average inputs of bedrock P.
Our results demonstrate that exogenic dust can drive the evolution of
nutrient budgets in montane ecosystems, with implications for predicting
forest response to changes in climate and land use.


### Potential of satellite-derived ecosystem functional attributes to anticipate species range shifts

Authors:
Alcaraz-Segura, D; Lomba, A; Sousa-Silva, R; Nieto-Lugilde, D; Alves, P;
Georges, D; Vicente, JR; Honrado, JP

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 57 86-92; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
In a world facing rapid environmental changes, anticipating their
impacts on biodiversity is of utmost relevance. Remotely-sensed
Ecosystem Functional Attributes (EFAs) are promising predictors for
Species Distribution Models (SDMs) by offering an early and integrative
response of vegetation performance to environmental drivers. Species of
high conservation concern would benefit the most from a better ability
to anticipate changes in habitat suitability. Here we illustrate how
yearly projections from SDMs based on EFAs could reveal short-term
changes in potential habitat suitability, anticipating mid-term shifts
predicted by climate-change-scenario models. We fitted two sets of SDM5
for 41 plant species of conservation concern in the Iberian Peninsula:
one calibrated with climate variables for baseline conditions and
projected under two climate-change-scenarios (future conditions); and
the other calibrated with EFAs for 2001 and projected annually from 2001
to 2013. Range shifts predicted by climate-based models for future
conditions were compared to the 2001-2013 trends from EFAs-based models.
Projections of EFAs-based models estimated changes (mostly contractions)
in habitat suitability that anticipated, for the majority (up to 64%) of
species, the mid-term shifts projected by traditional climate-change
scenario forecasting, and showed greater agreement with the
business-as-usual scenario than with the sustainable-development one.
This study shows how satellite-derived EFAs can be used as meaningful
essential biodiversity variables in SDM5 to provide early-warnings of
range shifts and predictions of short-term fluctuations in suitable
conditions for multiple species. 


### Laws, place, history and the interpretation of landforms

Authors:
Phillips, JD

Source:
*EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS*, 42 (2):347-354; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
The state of an Earth surface system (ESS) is determined by three sets
of factors: laws, place, and history. Laws (L=L-1, L-2, . . . , L-n) are
the n general principles applicable to any such system at any time.
Place factors (P=P1,P2,. . . , P-m) are the m relevant characteristics
of the local or regional environment. History factors (H=H-1, H-2, . . .
, H-q) include the previous evolutionary pathway of the ESS, its stage
of development, past disturbance, and initial conditions. Geoscience
investigation may focus on laws, place, or history, but ultimately all
three are necessary to understand and explain ESS. The LPH triad is
useful as a pedagogical device, illustrated here via application to
explaining the world's longest cave (Mammoth Cave, KY). Beyond providing
a useful checklist, the LPH framework provides analytical traction to
some difficult research problems. For example, studies of the avulsions
of three southeast Texas rivers showed substantial differences in
avulsion regimes and resulting alluvial morphology, despite the
proximity and superficial similarity of the systems. Avulsions are
governed by the same laws in all cases [L(A)=L(B)=L(C)], and the three
rivers have undergone the same sea-level, climate, and tectonic
histories, as well as the same general anthropic impacts
[H(A)approximate to H(B)approximate to H(C)]. Though regional
environmental controls are similar, local details such as the location
of the modern main channel relative to Pleistocene meander channels
differ, and thus these place factors explain the differences between the
rivers. The LPH framework, or similar types of reasoning, is implicit in
many types of geoscience analysis. Explicit attention to the triad can
help solve or address many specific problems and remind us of the
importance of all three sets of factors.


### Open hardware portable dual-probe heat-pulse sensor for measuring soil thermal properties and water content

Authors:
Ravazzani, G

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 133 9-14; FEB 2017 

Abstract:
A portable probe based on open hardware architecture for the assessment
of soil thermal properties and water content using the DPHP method is
presented. The mean percentage errors for assessment of volumetric heat
capacity and thermal conductivity were 4.6% and 8.9% respectively,
computed after sensor spacing calibration in agar stabilized water. The
DPHP probe has been tested for soil thermal properties assessment and
compared to TDR probe for the water content estimation in four different
soils.The DPHP probe showed an accuracy comparable to TDR in estimating
water content, with DPHP showing lower values of error index in 3
samples out of 4. The DPHP can be used to investigate smaller volume of
soil than TDR probe can do however, TDR is much faster than DPHP in
measure acquisition. 

### Soil microbes and their response to experimental warming over time: A meta-analysis of field studies

Authors:
Romero-Olivares, AL; Allison, SD; Treseder, KK

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 107 32-40; APR 2017 

Abstract:
Numerous field studies have found changes in soil respiration and
microbial abundance under experimental warming. Yet, it is uncertain
whether the magnitude of these responses remains consistent over the
long-term. We performed a meta-analysis on 25 field experiments to
examine how warming effects on soil respiration, microbial biomass, and
soil microbial C respond to the duration of warming. For each parameter,
we hypothesized that effect sizes of warming would diminish as the
duration of warming increased. In support of our hypothesis, warming
initially increased soil respiration, but the magnitude of this effect
declined significantly as warming progressed as evidenced by the two
longest studies in our meta-analysis. In fact, after 10 years of
warming, soil respiration in warmed treatments was similar to controls.
In contrast, warming effect sizes for fungal biomass, bacterial biomass,
and soil microbial C did not respond significantly to the duration of
warming. Microbial acclimation, community shifts, adaptation, or
reductions in labile C may have ameliorated warming effects on soil
respiration in the longterm. Accordingly, long-term soil C losses might
be smaller than those suggested by short-term warming studies. 



### Climate trends account for stalled wheat yields in Australia since 1990

Authors:
Hochman, Z; Gobbett, DL; Horan, H

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (5):2071-2081; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Global food security requires that grain yields continue to increase to
2050, yet yields have stalled in many developed countries. This
disturbing trend has so far been only partially explained. Here, we show
that wheat yields in Australia have stalled since 1990 and investigate
the extent to which climate trends account for this observation. Based
on simulation of 50 sites with quality weather data, that are
representative of the agro-ecological zones and of soil types in the
grain zone, we show that water-limited yield potential declined by 27%
over a 26 year period from 1990 to 2015. We attribute this decline to
reduced rainfall and to rising temperatures while the positive effect of
elevated atmospheric CO2 concentrations prevented a further 4% loss
relative to 1990 yields. Closer investigation of three sites revealed
the nature of the simulated response of water-limited yield to water
availability, water stress and maximum temperatures. At all three sites,
maximum temperature hastened time from sowing to flowering and to
maturity and reduced grain number per m 2 and average weight per grain.
This 27% climate-driven decline in water-limited yield is not fully
expressed in actual national yields. This is due to an unprecedented
rate of technology-driven gains closing the gap between actual and
water-limited potential yields by 25 kg ha(-1) yr(-1) enabling relative
yields to increase from 39% in 1990 to 55% in 2015. It remains to be
seen whether technology can continue to maintain current yields, let
alone increase them to those required by 2050.


### The sensitivity of soil respiration to soil temperature, moisture, and carbon supply at the global scale

Authors:
Hursh, A; Ballantyne, A; Cooper, L; Maneta, M; Kimball, J; Watts, J

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 23 (5):2090-2103; MAY 2017 

Abstract:
Soil respiration (Rs) is a major pathway by which fixed carbon in the
biosphere is returned to the atmosphere, yet there are limits to our
ability to predict respiration rates using environmental drivers at the
global scale. While temperature, moisture, carbon supply, and other site
characteristics are known to regulate soil respiration rates at plot
scales within certain biomes, quantitative frameworks for evaluating the
relative importance of these factors across different biomes and at the
global scale require tests of the relationships between field estimates
and global climatic data. This study evaluates the factors driving Rs at
the global scale by linking global datasets of soil moisture, soil
temperature, primary productivity, and soil carbon estimates with
observations of annual Rs from the Global Soil Respiration Database
(SRDB). We find that calibrating models with parabolic soil moisture
functions can improve predictive power over similar models with
asymptotic functions of mean annual precipitation. Soil temperature is
comparable with previously reported air temperature observations used in
predicting Rs and is the dominant driver of Rs in global models;
however, within certain biomes soil moisture and soil carbon emerge as
dominant predictors of Rs. We identify regions where typical
temperature-driven responses are further mediated by soil moisture,
precipitation, and carbon supply and regions in which environmental
controls on high Rs values are difficult to ascertain due to limited
field data. Because soil moisture integrates temperature and
precipitation dynamics, it can more directly constrain the heterotrophic
component of Rs, but global-scale models tend to smooth its spatial
heterogeneity by aggregating factors that increase moisture variability
within and across biomes. We compare statistical and mechanistic models
that provide independent estimates of global Rs ranging from 83 to 108
Pg yr(-1), but also highlight regions of uncertainty where more
observations are required or environmental controls are hard to
constrain.









