---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-02-14
modified: 2017-02-14
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #5

<!--more-->



### Consistent negative response of US crops to high temperatures in observations and crop models

[online link](http://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms13931)
Authors:
Schauberger, B; Archontoulis, S; Arneth, A; Balkovic, J; Ciais, P;
Deryng, D; Elliott, J; Folberth, C; Khabarov, N; Muller, C; Pugh, TAM;
Rolinski, S; Schaphoff, S; Schmid, E; Wang, XH; Schlenker, W; Frieler, K

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 NIL_1-NIL_9; JAN 19 2017 

Abstract:
High temperatures are detrimental to crop yields and could lead to
global warming-driven reductions in agricultural productivity. To assess
future threats, the majority of studies used process-based crop models,
but their ability to represent effects of high temperature has been
questioned. Here we show that an ensemble of nine crop models reproduces
the observed average temperature responses of US maize, soybean and
wheat yields. Each day >30 degrees C diminishes maize and soybean yields
by up to 6% under rainfed conditions. Declines observed in irrigated
areas, or simulated assuming full irrigation, are weak. This supports
the hypothesis that water stress induced by high temperatures causes the
decline. For wheat a negative response to high temperature is neither
observed nor simulated under historical conditions, since critical
temperatures are rarely exceeded during the growing season. In the
future, yields are modelled to decline for all three crops at
temperatures >30 degrees C. Elevated CO2 can only weakly reduce these
yield losses, in contrast to irrigation.



### Effects of soil composition and preparation on the prediction of particle size distribution using mid-infrared spectroscopy and partial least-squares regression

[online link](http://www.publish.csiro.au/SR/pdf/SR16011)

Authors:
Janik, LJ; Soriano-Disla, JM; Forrester, ST; McLaughlin, MJ

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 54 (8):889-904; 2016 

Abstract:
Soil composition and preparation can affect prediction accuracy using
diffuse reflectance mid-infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy
(DRIFTS). In the present study, we evaluated the effect of soil
composition, preparation and carbonate content on the accuracy of
particle size distribution (PSD) predictions in four contrasting sets of
soils, including calcareous soils, using partial least-squares
regression (PLSR). The soils were scanned as <2- and <0.1-mm fine-ground
samples. Regression calibrations were derived for individual soil sets,
as well as a composite of the four sets. Predictions for clay and sand
for the <2-mm composite calibration resulted in good accuracy
(coefficient of determination R-2 = 0.78; ratio of the standard
deviation of reference values to the prediction error (RPD) = 2.2), but
were less accurate for clay in the calcareous soils (R-2 = 0.70-0.78;
RPD = 1.8-1.1) and similarly accurate for sand (R-2 = 0.68-0.80; RPD =
1.7-2.2). Predictions for silt were poor. Accuracies improved by fine
grinding (R-2 = 0.88, RPD = 2.9 for clay; R-2 = 0.84, RPD = 2.9 for
sand). It was concluded that single, large and highly variable sets
rather than site-specific calibrations could be used for the PSD
predictions of specific soil sets. Changes in the PLSR loading weights,
resulting from grinding, could be linked to an improved access of the
infrared beam to the soil matrix by removal or dilution of surface
coatings, resulting in a reduction of inter-and intraparticulate
heterogeneity.



### Multifractal analysis of soil hydraulic properties in arid areas

[online link](http://www.publish.csiro.au/sr/SR15284)

Authors:
Pahlevan, N; Yazdani, MR; Zolfaghari, AA; Ghodrati, M

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 54 (8):914-925; 2016 

Abstract:
Physical and hydraulic properties of soil are variable at different
spatial scales. This indicates the necessity of understanding spatial
patterns of soil properties. Scaling analysis, such as multifractal
analysis, has been used to determine the spatial variability of soil
properties. There are however limited numbers of studies concerning the
applications of multifractal techniques applied to characterise spatial
variability of soil properties in arid lands. The objective of this
study was to quantify the scaling patterns of soil properties measured
across a transect and to apply multifractal analysis in arid land areas.
A transect with a length of 4.80 km was selected, and soil properties
were measured at 0-20 cm depth every 145m along the transect. The soil
properties analysed were: texture (sand, silt, clay), pH, electrical
conductivity (EC), bulk density (BD), soil hydraulic properties
(saturated hydraulic conductivity K-s and the van Genuchten soil
water-retention equation's parameters n(v) and alpha(v)), saturated
water content (theta(s)), and the slope of the soil water-retention
curve at its inflection point (S). Results showed that the variability
of pH and BD was characterised by quasi-monofractal behaviour. Results
showed that soil hydraulic properties such as K-s, alpha(n), n(v), S,
and theta(s) were characterised by higher multifractal indices in the
transects. EC showed the highest tendency to a multifractal type of
scaling or the higher degree of multifractality.



### Mineralogy of volcanically derived alluvial soils at Moshi, Tanzania

[online link](http://www.publish.csiro.au/SR/SR15252)

Authors:
Taylor, TS; Hughes, JC; Titshall, LW

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 54 (8):926-936; 2016 

Abstract:
Despite intensive commercial agriculture in the rift zone of Tanzania,
mineralogical studies on the soils influenced by volcanic parent
materials are scarce. A mineralogical investigation of the soils and two
buried ash layers from an irrigated sugar estate was undertaken using
X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy and measurements of
extractable iron, aluminium and silicon and the specific surface area
(SSA) of the clay fraction. The dominant mineral in the sand and silt
fractions was sanidine. The clay fractions contained mainly high-defect
kaolin, illite and K-feldspar, with small amounts of calcite, talc and
gibbsite in some samples. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of
tubular and spheroidal halloysite and <0.5 mu m kaolinite crystals, as
well as nanocrystalline material, probably allophane, and volcanic
glass. The amounts of ferrihydrite (0.34-1.84%) and allophane
(0.52-6.84%) were low in the soils but higher in the buried ash layers.
The surface areas of the clay fractions were high (up to 145 m(2) g(-1))
and it was calculated that 5% allophane constituted 22% of the total
SSA. Although all soils were dominated by halloysite and small kaolinite
particles, it is likely that the small amounts of allophane with high
SSA has a strong effect on their physical and chemical properties.


### An alternative index to the exchangeable sodium percentage for an explanation of dispersion occurring in soils

[online link](http://www.publish.csiro.au/SR/SR15281)

Authors:
Bennett, JM; Marchuk, A; Marchuk, S

Source:
*SOIL RESEARCH*, 54 (8):949-957; 2016 

Abstract:
With the introduction of the cation ratio of soil stability (CROSS) to
replace the sodium adsorption ratio (SAR) on the basis of differential
effects of K and Mg to Na and Ca, respectively, there is a requirement
for a similar index involving these cations to replace the exchangeable
sodium percentage (ESP). The exchangeable dispersive percentage (EDP) is
derived and proposed to replace ESP. This paper uses two datasets, one
where exchangeable K concentration is relatively high and exchangeable
Na low, and a further dataset where Mg dominates the cation exchange
capacity. EDP is validated against these datasets and further
mathematical investigation of the contribution of Mg to dispersion is
undertaken. Mineralogy appears to affect turbidity results at a given
dispersive index, and an improved criterion for assessment of Mg effect
on dispersivity is presented.




