---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2017-10-06
modified: 2017-10-06
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2017 #28

* Is demineralization with dilute hydrofluoric acid a viable method for isolating mineral stabilized soil organic matter?
* Controlling factors for the stability of subsoil carbon in a Dystric Cambisol
* Decrease of soil organic matter stabilization with increasing inputs: Mechanisms and controls
* Evaluation of pre-treatment procedures for improved interpretation of mid infrared spectra of soil organic matter










<!--more-->

### Is demineralization with dilute hydrofluoric acid a viable method for isolating mineral stabilized soil organic matter?

Authors:
Sanderman, J; Farrell, M; Macreadie, PI; Hayes, M; McGowan, J; Baldock,
J

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 4-11; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
Hydrofluoric acid (HF) is a powerful tool in the investigation of soil
organic matter (SOM) due to its ability to dissolve minerals but not
break the chemical bonds of organic matter. These properties make the
use of HF a common pretreatment step for removing paramagnetic
interferences and concentrating carbon prior to solid-state C-13 NMR
spectroscopy with the working assumption that any SOM lost during HF
treatment will not bias the resulting NMR spectra. Hydrofluoric acid is
also used to isolate a mineral-stabilized OM fraction with the working
assumption that most mineral-stabilized OM is primarily low molecular
weight compounds bound to mineral surfaces and when the minerals are
dissolved in HF, the OM bound to these surfaces will be lost to
solution. The working assumptions behind these two uses of HF
dissolution appear to be contradictory. To address this apparent
conundrum, we treated a number of simple organic compounds, soil and
sediment samples with HF in 2 and 10% concentrations and tracked C and N
loss as well as chemical shifts observed in solid-state 13C NMR spectra.
For the soil and sediment samples there were inconsistent C and N losses
but no difference in loss between the 2% and 10% HF concentrations.
There were no obvious soil properties that could explain the differences
in C or N loss. Overall, there were significant shifts in NMR-observable
organic chemistry after treatment with both 2 and 10% HF with anoxic
fine grained sediments under a seagrass meadow exhibiting strong
preferential loss of O-alkyl C while terrestrial soils generally lost OM
with more of a mixed chemical character. For many samples, the degree of
selective loss was enough to significantly bias the interpretation of OM
composition. Given the lack of ability to explain the large differences
in C loss between samples with observed soil properties, this study
suggests that caution should be used when interpreting HF-soluble C to
indicate a mineral-stabilized fraction without considering the soil
physicochemical environment and putative mechanisms for organo-mineral
associations in that particular soil. 

### Controlling factors for the stability of subsoil carbon in a Dystric Cambisol

Authors:
Wordell-Dietrich, P; Don, A; Helfrich, M

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 40-48; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
Subsoils store > 50 % of the total global soil organic carbon (SOC), and
low SOC content and high mean residence times indicate that subsoils
have the potential to sequester additional C on the long-term.
Nevertheless, the mechanisms controlling the turnover of SOC in subsoils
are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of
temperature and substrate limitation on subsoil SOC turnover and
evaluate the stability of additional C inputs in subsoils.In a 63-day
microcosm incubation experiment, CO2 production of undisturbed soil
samples from topsoil and two subsoil depth increments was measured at
two different temperatures (10 degrees C and 20 degrees C).
Additionally, C-13 labeled root litter was added to the different
samples and measurements of the isotopic signature of the respired CO2
allowed a differentiation between SOC mineralization and root
mineralization. The CO2 production per unit soil mass was lower in deep
subsoil than in the topsoil, but the CO2 production per unit SOC
(specific mineralization) was three times higher in the deepest subsoil
than in topsoil. This depth gradient of specific mineralization in
undisturbed samples indicates that deep subsoil contained relatively
more labile SOC than the topsoil. The temperature sensitivity of SOC
mineralization expressed as Q(10-q), decreased from around 3 to around 1
with increasing soil depth. In contrast, the mineralization of the added
root material was solely determined by the recalcitrance of the added
roots as indicated by a similar Q(10-q) through all three soil
depths.Contrary to the SOC mineralization of undisturbed samples,
significantly more added root litter was mineralized in the samples from
the upper horizons than in the deepest subsoil samples, revealing a
non-linear relationship between mineralization of added C and the SOC
content. Thus, the distance between substrate units, as indicated by the
SOC content, may be key factor for subsoil SOC dynamics. Moreover, root
addition caused no positive priming effects in subsoil horizons
indicating that enhanced C inputs to the subsoil can increase the SOC
content and tap the unused C storage potential of subsoils.

### Decrease of soil organic matter stabilization with increasing inputs: Mechanisms and controls

Authors:
Shahbaz, M; Kuzyakov, Y; Heitkamp, F

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 76-82; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
Crop residue addition is a way to increase soil organic matter (SOM)
level in croplands. However, organic matter input and SOM stocks are not
linearly related. Consequently, adding high amounts of residues, such as
straw, may increase SOM to only a small extent, and an alternative use
of the residues may be justified. The objective of this study was to
test how the level and type (above- or belowground) of residue addition
affect SOM stabilization. We hypothesise that (1) root residues will be
mineralised slower than leaf and stalk residues, (2) soil aggregate
formation will increase with high additions, and (3) wheat residue
addition will induce positive priming, with the magnitude depending on
the residue level and type. Homogeneously C-13-labelled wheat residues
(leaves, stalks, roots) were added to a silt-loam soil at levels of 1.40
and 5.04 g DM kg(-1) and CO2 release and delta C-13 signature were
measured over 64 days at 20 degrees C. Water-stable macroaggregates (>
250 mu m), microaggregates (53-250 mu m) and silt plus clay size
fractions (< 53 mu m) were separated and C-13 incorporation from residue
was quantified in each fraction after 64 days. Aggregate formation
generally increased with added residue amount, but the proportion of
residues occluded within aggregates decreased with increasing addition
level. The occlusion of residues from aboveground biomass was more
reduced with addition level than that of roots. Residue mineralisation
increased with the addition level, but this increase was less for roots
compared to stalks and leaves. Priming effects were similar between
residue types and mainly depended on the added amount: SOM
mineralisation increased by 50% and 90% at low and high addition levels,
respectively. We conclude that the proportion of residues physically
protected within aggregates decreases and priming effects increase with
increasing C input leading to decreasing rate of long-term C
stabilization within SOM by increasing residue addition.

### Evaluation of pre-treatment procedures for improved interpretation of mid infrared spectra of soil organic matter

Authors:
Yeasmin, S; Singh, B; Johnston, CT; Sparks, DL

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 304 83-92; SI OCT 15 2017 

Abstract:
This study evaluated the effectiveness of dry ashing of soils and
subsequent spectral subtraction procedure in comparison with alternative
chemical methods in accentuating organics for diffuse reflectance
infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) spectroscopic analysis of soil
organic matter composition. Chemical oxidation of soil with sodium
hypochlorite (NaOC1) and demineralisation by hydrofluoric acid (HF)
treatment were assessed as possible alternatives to the dry ashing
method. Surface samples (0-10 cm) of four contrasting soils i.e.,
Ferralsol, Luvisol, Vertisol and Solonetz were used in the study. We
observed the spectral changes before and after pre-treatments using
DRIFT spectroscopy of bulk soils and their respective four separated
density fractions (<1.8,1.8-2.2, 2.2-2.6, and >2.6 g cm(-3)). Dry ashing
of soils altered the absorption bands of gibbsite and goethite in the
Ferralsol; however, phyllosilicate bands in the Luvisol, Vertisol and
Solonetz remained largely unaffected. The organic bands were
incompletely removed by the dry ashing method and shifts in some major
organic bands were also noticed. Thus the accuracy of the dry ashed
spectral subtraction was limited due to the mineral and organic bands
alteration. The Na0C1 treatment oxidised labile organic carbon (OC)
(e.g., aliphatics) without any mineral alteration, but the rest of the
OC fractions remained largely unaffected. Therefore, the result of
spectral subtraction of the Na0C1 treated samples from original spectra
was ambiguous. The HF treatment removed minerals efficiently from both
bulk soils and density fractions, which noticeably highlighted the
organic bands with little or no mineral interferences in the spectra of
the treated samples. HF treatment also removed a small portion of the
total OC that was associated with minerals. We conclude that HF
treatment was more effective than dry ashing and Na0C1 oxidation to
accentuate organics in the soil DRIFT spectra, since it provided mineral
interference free spectra with in general least affected organic bands.
Thus, HF treatment of soil offers a potential pretreatment method for
improved spectroscopic characterisation of soil.organic matter



