---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-02-05
modified: 2018-02-05
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #3

* GIS-based rare events logistic regression for mineral prospectivity mapping
* Arc4nix: A cross-platform geospatial analytical library for cluster and cloud computing
* Soil erosion in the Anthropocene: Research needs
* Recognition of geochemical footprints of mineral systems in the regolith at regional to continental scales
* A Theoretical Model of Drumlin Formation Based on Observations at Mulajokull, Iceland
* Exchange of greenhouse gases between soil and atmosphere: interactions of soil physical factors and biological processes
* The search for the meaning of life in soil: an opinion
* A climosequence of chronosequences in southwestern Australia
* On the history and future of soil organic phosphorus research: a critique across three generations
* European Journal of Soil Science [Volume 69, Issue 1](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.2018.69.issue-1/issuetoc)
* A review on the practice of big data analysis in agriculture
* A low cost sunlight analyser and data logger measuring radiation
* A Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) application for irrigation facilities management based on Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs)
* Development of an irrigation scheduling software based on model predicted crop water stress
* Improving near-real time deforestation monitoring in tropical dry forests by combining dense Sentinel-1 time series with Landsat and ALOS-2 PALSAR-2.
* Regional clustering-based spatial preprocessing for hyperspectral unmixing
* Information theoretic evaluation of satellite soil moisture retrievals
* Sentinel-2 cropland mapping using pixel-based and object-based time-weighted dynamic time warping analysis
* Mapping forest change using stacked generalization: An ensemble approach
* Development and assessment of the SMAP enhanced passive soil moisture product
* Building a pedotransfer function for soil bulk density on regional dataset and testing its validity over a larger area



















<!--more-->

### GIS-based rare events logistic regression for mineral prospectivity mapping

Authors:
Xiong, YH; Zuo, RG

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 111 18-25; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Mineralization is a special type of singularity event, and can be
considered as a rare event, because within a specific study area the
number of prospective locations (1s) are considerably fewer than the
number of non prospective locations (Os). In this study, GIS-based rare
events logistic regression (RELR) was used to map the mineral
prospectivity in the southwestern Fujian Province, China. An odds ratio
was used to measure the relative importance of the evidence variables
with respect to mineralization. The results suggest that formations,
granites, and skarn alterations, followed by faults and aeromagnetic
anomaly are the most important indicators for the formation of
Fe-related mineralization in the study area. The prediction rate and the
area under the curve (AUC) values show that areas with higher
probability have a strong spatial relationship with the known mineral
deposits. Comparing the results with original logistic regression (OLR)
demonstrates that the GIS-based RELR performs better than OLR. The
prospectivity map obtained in this study benefits the Search for skam
Fe-related mineralization in the study area.

### Arc4nix: A cross-platform geospatial analytical library for cluster and cloud computing

Authors:
Tang, JY; Matyas, CJ

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 111 159-166; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Big Data in geospatial technology is a grand challenge for processing
capacity. The ability to use a GIS for geospatial analysis on Cloud
Computing and High Performance Computing (HPC) clusters has emerged as a
new approach to provide feasible solutions. However, users lack the
ability to migrate existing research tools to a Cloud Computing or
HPC-based environment because of the incompatibility of the
market-dominating ArcGIS software stack and Linux operating system. This
manuscript details a cross-platform geospatial library "arc4nix" to
bridge this gap. Arc4nix provides an application programming interface
compatible with ArcGIS and its Python library "arcpy". Arc4nix uses a
decoupled client-server architecture that permits geospatial analytical
functions to run on the remote server and other functions to run on the
native Python environment. It uses functional programming and
meta-programming language to dynamically construct Python codes
containing actual geospatial calculations, send them to a server and
retrieve results. Arc4nix allows users to employ their arcpy-based
script in a Cloud Computing and HPC environment with minimal or no
modification. It also supports parallelizing tasks using multiple CPU
cores and nodes for large-scale analyses. A case study of geospatial
processing of,a numerical weather model's output shows that arcpy scales
linearly in a distributed environment. Arc4nix is open-source software.

### Soil erosion in the Anthropocene: Research needs

Authors:
Poesen, J

Source:
*EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS*, 43 (1):64-84; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Soil erosion is a geomorphological and, at the same time, a land
degradation process that may cause environmental and property damage,
loss of livelihoods and services as well as social and economic
disruption. Erosion not only lowers soil quality on-site, but causes
also significant sediment-related problems off-site. Given the large
number of research papers on this topic, one might therefore conclude
that we know now almost everything about soil erosion and its control so
that little new knowledge can be added. This conclusion can be refuted
by pointing to some major research gaps. There is a need for more
research attention to (1) improved understanding of both natural and
anthropogenic soil erosion processes and their interactions, (2) scaling
up soil erosion processes and rates in space and time, and (3)
innovative techniques and strategies to prevent soil erosion or reduce
erosion rates. This is illustrated with various case studies from around
the world. If future research addresses these research gaps, we will (1)
better understand processes and their interactions operating at a range
of spatial and temporal scales, predict their rates as well as their
on-site and off-site impacts, which is academically spoken rewarding but
also crucial for better targeting erosion control measures, and (2) we
will be in a better position to select the most appropriate and
effective soil erosion control techniques and strategies which are
highly necessary for a sustainable use of soils in the Anthropocene.

### Recognition of geochemical footprints of mineral systems in the regolith at regional to continental scales

Authors:
de Caritat, P; Main, PT; Grunsky, EC; Mann, AW

Source:
*AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF EARTH SCIENCES*, 64 (8):1033-1043; 2017 

Abstract:
Understanding the character of Australia's extensive regolith cover is
crucial to the continuing success of mineral exploration. We hypothesise
that the regolith contains geochemical fingerprints of processes related
to the development and preservation of mineral systems at a range of
scales. We test this hypothesis by analysing the composition of surface
sediments within greenfield regional-scale (southern Thomson Orogen) and
continental-scale (Australia) study areas. In the southern Thomson
Orogen area, the first principal component (PC1) derived in our study
[Ca, Sr, Cu, Mg, Au and Mo at one end; rare earth elements (REEs) and Th
at the other] is very similar to the empirical vector used by a local
company (enrichment in Sr, Ca and Au concomitant with depletion in REEs)
to successfully site exploration drill holes for Cu-Au mineralisation.
Mapping of the spatial distribution of PC1 in the region reveals several
areas of elevated values and possible mineralisation potential. One of
the strongest targets in the PC1 map is located between Brewarrina and
Bourke in northern New South Wales. Here, exploration drilling has
intersected porphyry Cu-Au mineralisation with up to 1 wt% Cu, 0.1 g/t
Au, and 717ppm Zn. The analysis of a comparable geochemical dataset at
the continental scale yields a compositionally similar PC1 (Ca, Sr, Mg,
Cu, Au and Mo at one end; REEs and Th at the other) to that of the
regional study. Mapping PC1 at the continental scale shows patterns that
(1) are spatially compatible with the regional study and (2) reveal
several geological regions of elevated values, possibly suggesting an
enhanced potential for porphyry Cu-Au mineralisation. These include
well-endowed mineral provinces such as the Curnamona and Capricorn
regions, but also some greenfield regions such as the
Albany-Fraser/western Eucla, western Murray and Eromanga geological
regions. We conclude that the geochemical composition of Australia's
regolith may hold critical information pertaining to mineralisation
within/beneath it.

### A Theoretical Model of Drumlin Formation Based on Observations at Mulajokull, Iceland

Authors:
Iverson, NR; McCracken, RG; Zoet, LK; Benediktsson, IO; Schomacker, A;
Johnson, MD; Woodard, J

Source:
*JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-EARTH SURFACE*, 122 (12):2302-2323; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
The drumlin field at the surge-type glacier, Mulajokull, provides an
unusual opportunity to build a model of drumlin formation based on field
observations in a modern drumlin-forming environment. These observations
indicate that surges deposit till layers that drape the glacier
forefield, conform to drumlin surfaces, and are deposited in shear.
Observations also indicate that erosion helps create drumlin relief,
effective stresses in subglacial till are highest between drumlins, and
during quiescent flow, crevasses on the glacier surface overlie drumlins
while subglacial channels occupy intervening swales. In the model, we
consider gentle undulations on the bed bounded by subglacial channels at
low water pressure. During quiescent flow, slip of temperate ice across
these undulations and basal water flow toward bounding channels create
an effective stress distribution that maximizes till entrainment in ice
on the heads and flanks of drumlins. Crevasses amplify this effect but
are not necessary for it. During surges, effective stresses are
uniformly low, and the bed shears pervasively. Vigorous basal melting
during surges releases debris from ice and deposits it on the bed, with
deposition augmented by transport in the deforming bed. As surge cycles
progress, drumlins migrate downglacier and grow at increasing rates, due
to positive feedbacks that depend on drumlin height. Drumlin growth can
be accompanied by either net aggradation or erosion of the bed, and
drumlin heights and stratigraphy generally correspond with observations.
This model highlights that drumlin growth can reflect instabilities
other than those of bed shear instability models, which require
heuristic till transport assumptions.

### Exchange of greenhouse gases between soil and atmosphere: interactions of soil physical factors and biological processes

Authors:
Smith, KA; Ball, T; Conen, F; Dobbie, KE; Massheder, J; Rey, A

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (1):10-20; SI JAN 2018 

Abstract:
This review examines the interactions between soil physical factors and
the biological processes responsible for the production and consumption
in soils of greenhouse gases. The release of CO2 by aerobic respiration
is a non-linear function of temperature over a wide range of soil water
contents, but becomes a function of water content as a soil dries out.
Some of the reported variation in the temperature response may be
attributable simply to measurement procedures. Lowering the water table
in organic soils by drainage increases the release of soil carbon as CO2
in some but not all environments, and reduces the quantity of CH4
emitted to the atmosphere. Ebullition and diffusion through the
aerenchyma of rice and plants in natural wetlands both contribute
substantially to the emission of CH4; the proportion of the emissions
taking place by each pathway varies seasonally. Aerated soils are a sink
for atmospheric CH4, through microbial oxidation. The main control on
oxidation rate is gas diffusivity, and the temperature response is
small. Nitrous oxide is the third greenhouse gas produced in soils,
together with NO, a precursor of tropospheric ozone (a short-lived
greenhouse gas). Emission of N2O increases markedly with increasing
temperature, and this is attributed to increases in the anaerobic volume
fraction, brought about by an increased respiratory sink for O-2.
Increases in water-filled pore space also result in increased anaerobic
volume; again, the outcome is an exponential increase in N2O emission.
The review draws substantially on sources from beyond the normal range
of soil science literature, and is intended to promote integration of
ideas, not only between soil biology and soil physics, but also over a
wider range of interacting disciplines.


### The search for the meaning of life in soil: an opinion

Authors:
Young, IM; Bengough, AG

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (1):31-38; SI JAN 2018 

Abstract:
The introduction of impressive technologies in the search for life's
diversity and activity in soil has led to remarkable new techniques and
knowledge concerning the soil microbial community. These have led to
finding some important links to function. However, we attest that the
general lack of causality found between the many metrics of microbial
diversity and populations of soil microbes and function is due, at least
in part, to the lack of understanding of the links between microbial
populations and dynamics to their physical habitat and attendant
moisture conditions. In this opinion paper we explore the importance of
this interplay between organism and habitat. Further, as an example of
this interplay, we introduce the potential importance of nematode
movement and gene transfer in bacterial populations.HighlightsThe
importance of the physical habitat is highlighted in soil microbiology
studies.The interplay between the soil-root-habitat is
emphasized.Seeking a functional understanding of biodiversity rather
than a 'biology of numbers and differences' approach is proposed.The
movement of nematodes with respect to horizontal gene transfer is
discussed.

### A climosequence of chronosequences in southwestern Australia

Authors:
Turner, BL; Hayes, PE; Laliberte, E

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (1):69-85; SI JAN 2018 

Abstract:
To examine how climate affects soil development and nutrient
availability over long timescales, we studied a series of four long-term
chronosequences along a climate gradient in southwestern Australia.
Annual rainfall ranged from 533 to 1185 mm(water balance from -900 to +
52 mm) and each chronosequence included Holocene (<= 6.5 ka), Middle
Pleistocene (120-500 ka) and Early Pleistocene (similar to 2000 ka)
dunes. Vegetation changed markedly along the climosequence, from
shrubland at the driest site to Eucalyptus forest at the wettest. Soil
pH was similar in the youngest soil of each chronosequence, although the
carbonate and P contents of the parent sand declined from dry to wet
along the climosequence, presumably linked to variation in offshore
productivity. Despite this, soil development and associated nutrient
status followed remarkably consistent patterns along the four
chronosequences. Pedogenesis involved decalcification and secondary
carbonate precipitation in Holocene soils and leaching of iron oxides
from Middle Pleistocene soils, leading ultimately to bleached quartz
sands in the oldest soils. Along all chronosequences soil pH and total P
declined, whereas C:P and N:P ratios increased, which is consistent with
the predicted change from N to P limitation of vegetation during
ecosystem development. The expected unimodal pattern of leaf area index
was most pronounced along wetter chronosequences, suggesting an effect
of climate on the expression of retrogression. The four chronosequences
do not appear to span a pedogenic climate threshold, defined as an
abrupt change in soil properties across a relatively small change in
climate, because exchangeable phosphate and base cations declined
consistently during long-term pedogenesis. However, the proportion of
total P in organic form was greater along wetter chronosequences. We
conclude that soil and nutrient availability on the coastal sand plains
of southwestern Australia change consistently during long-term
pedogenesis, despite marked variation in modern vegetation and climate.
The four chronosequences provide a rare soil-age x climate framework
within which to study long-term ecosystem development.

### On the history and future of soil organic phosphorus research: a critique across three generations

Authors:
Haygarth, PM; Harrison, AF; Turner, BL

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (1):86-94; SI JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Soil organic phosphorus has broad agronomic and ecological significance,
but remains a neglected topic of research. This opinion paper reflects a
collaborative discussion between three generations of scientists who
have collectively studied soil organic phosphorus for almost 50 years.
We discuss personal reflections on our involvement in the field,
opinions about progress and promising opportunities for future research.
We debate an apparent overemphasis on analytical methodology at the
expense of broader questions, and whether this has stifled progress in
recent decades. We reiterate the urgent need to understand organic
phosphorus cycling in the environment to address fundamental questions
about phosphate supply, crop nutrition, water quality and ecosystem
ecology. We also contend that we must encourage and integrate the study
of organic phosphorus across all scales, from molecular chemistry to
global cycling. Our discussion among three generations of researchers
shows the value of a long-term perspective, emphasizes the changing
nature of this field of research, and reinforces the importance of
continuing to be curious about the dynamics of organic phosphorus in the
environment.

### A review on the practice of big data analysis in agriculture

Authors:
Kamilaris, A; Kartakoullis, A; Prenafeta-Boldu, FX

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 143 23-37; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
To tackle the increasing challenges of agricultural production, the
complex agricultural ecosystems need to be better understood. This can
happen by means of modem digital technologies that monitor continuously
the physical environment, producing large quantities of data in an
unprecedented pace. The analysis of this (big) data would enable farmers
and companies to extract value from it, improving their productivity.
Although big data analysis is leading to advances in various industries,
it has not yet been widely applied in agriculture. The objective of this
paper is to perform a review on current studies and research works in
agriculture which employ the recent practice of big data analysis, in
order to solve various relevant problems. Thirty-four different studies
are presented, examining the problem they address, the proposed
solution, tools, algorithms and data used, nature and dimensions of big
data employed, scale of use as well as overall impact. Concluding, our
review highlights the large opportunities of big data analysis in
agriculture towards smarter farming, showing that the availability of
hardware and software, techniques and methods for big data analysis, as
well as the increasing openness of big data sources, shall encourage
more academic research, public sector initiatives and business ventures
in the agricultural sector. This practice is still at an early
development stage and many barriers need to be overcome.


### A low cost sunlight analyser and data logger measuring radiation

Authors:
Oates, MJ; Ruiz-Canales, A; Ferrandez-Villena, M; Lopez, AF

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 143 38-48; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Growing conditions in the early stages of crop development can be
critical to eventual yield. This is true for a wide variety of crops
such as lettuce, maize and rice. These conditions include not only soil
quality, moisture and temperature, but also the quality and duration of
available sunlight. A simple measure of 'brightness' is however not a
good indication of the true 'quality' of the sunlight available.
Research has shown that the presence or absence of specific wavelengths
of light (particularly infra-red (IR), red and blue) can significantly
affect photosynthesis and hence crop growth. Further, over exposure of
plant tissue to high levels of ultra violet radiation can prove
damaging. IR radiation is known to be scattered by weak levels of cloud
and haze, and is significantly absorbed by moderate cloud conditions,
resulting in lower levels reaching the ground. Ultra violet radiation is
capable of penetrating even moderate levels of cloud. The total amount
of quality sunlight received by an immature plant can affect its later
yield, determining whether a crop is worth harvesting, or influence the
later use of fertilizers or the real time control of supplementary,
wavelength specific illumination. This paper discusses results from a
low cost, real time, stand-alone LED based sunlight analyser and data
logger capable of making both quantitative and qualitative measures of
specific wavelength bands, and distinguishing sunlight conditions
ranging from direct sun, through light haze, moderate cloud and even
moonlight. The unit costs less than 10 Euros and can give in excess of 4
months unattended monitoring and logging using 3 alkaline AA batteries,
storing to an internal 32Mbit Flash EEPROM and transmitting via a 2.4
GHz RF link.

### A Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) application for irrigation facilities management based on Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs)

Authors:
Nam, WH; Kim, T; Hong, EM; Choi, JY; Kim, JT

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 143 185-192; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Irrigation facilities that supply agricultural water are distributed at
low density across areas with water demand and require efficient
operation and maintenance. Traditional manual irrigation facilities
management faces critical limitations, such as delays/losses resulting
from data handling errors, and facility misidentification. Therefore, an
information system for irrigation facilities management could be more
efficient if it includes a wireless sensor network (WSN) that uses
information and communication technologies (ICTs). We propose a wireless
sensor network application for irrigation facilities management based on
radio frequency identification (RFID) and quick response (QR) codes. The
system was installed in a pilot site in the I-dong irrigation districts
in Gyeonggi, South Korea, and was determined to be beneficial for the
inspection of agricultural irrigation facilities in the irrigation
districts. Real-time information downloading, collecting field data, and
updating the condition of the irrigation facilities in terms of
operational conditions and maintenance requirements can improve
management. The operation results demonstrated the applicability of the
ICTs and WSN to agricultural water management and that it provided good
portability, recognition, and information gathering abilities in the
field.

### Development of an irrigation scheduling software based on model predicted crop water stress

Authors:
Gu, Z; Qi, ZM; Ma, LW; Gui, DW; Xu, JZ; Fang, QX; Yuan, SQ; Feng, G

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 143 208-221; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Modern irrigation scheduling methods are generally based on
sensor-monitored soil moisture regimes rather than crop water stress.
Crop water stress is difficult to measure in real-time, but can be
computed using agricultural system models. In this study, an irrigation
scheduling method and its facilitate software based on RZWQM2 model
(Root Zone Water Quality Model) predicted crop water stress were
developed and evaluated. The timing of irrigation was based on the
occurrence of model-simulated water stress, while the depth of
irrigation was based on the fraction of the soil moisture deficit (K)
needed to replenish the soil water content (0) at any given time to
field capacity (theta(fc)), Le., from gamma(to), theta(to) theta(to) + K
(theta(fc)-theta(to)). The predicted water stress for different K values
was tested based on RZWQM2 scenarios calibrated against data collected
in a drip-irrigated corn (Zea mays L.) field near Greeley, Colorado, USA
between 2008 and 2010, and in a sprinkler irrigated soybean [Glycine max
(L.) Mem] field in Noxubee, Mississippi, USA in 2014. For the Colorado
site, the simulated full irrigation (K = 1) using this newly developed
water stress-based irrigation approach saved 30.5%, 17.3% and 7.1% in
total irrigation depth in successive years, whereas higher frequency
with 60-90% of full irrigation at each event (0.6 <= K <= 0.9) provided
water savings of as much as 35%, 30%, and 16%, respectively. The water
stress-based irrigation scheme showed that crop yield was not affected,
with a negligible change about 0.03-3.81% decrease. These water savings
were a result of the water stress-based irrigation regime maintaining
sufficient water to meet crop root water uptake requirements without
constantly fully rehydrating the soil, thereby minimizing evaporation
from the soil surface and soil water storage after grain filling. For
the Mississippi site, this newly developed water stress-based irrigation
software could improve crop yield by 291 kg ha(-1) though consume 3.43
cm more water than field irrigation regime. Similarly, high frequency
irrigation (lower K) under water stress-based regime resulted in higher
water use efficiency. This study suggested that the water stress-based
irrigation scheme could save water use and maintain crop yield in
semi-arid region, while in humid region it could increase crop yield
while consume more water. Further work is needed to install this system
in an irrigated field and test its performance under different climate
and soil conditions.

### Improving near-real time deforestation monitoring in tropical dry forests by combining dense Sentinel-1 time series with Landsat and ALOS-2 PALSAR-2

Authors:
Reiche, J; Hamunyela, E; Verbesselt, J; Hoekman, D; Herold, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 147-161; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Combining observations from multiple optical and synthetic aperture
radar (SAR) satellites can provide temporally dense and regular
information at medium resolution scale, independently of weather,
season, and location. This has the potential to improve near real-time
deforestation monitoring in dry tropical regions, where traditional
optical only monitoring systems typically suffer from limited data
availability due to persistent cloud cover. In this context, the
recently launched Sentinel-1 satellites promise unprecedented potential,
because for the first time dense and regular SAR observations are free
and openly available. We demonstrate multi-sensor near real-time
deforestation detection in tropical dry forests, through the combination
of Sentinel-1 C-band SAR time series with ALSO-2 PALSAR-2 L-band SAR,
and Landsat-7/ETM + and 8/OLI. We used spatial normalisation to reduce
the dry forest seasonality in the optical and SAR time series, and
combined them within a probabilistic approach to detect deforestation in
near real-time. Our results for a dry tropical forest site in Bolivia,
showed that, as a result of high observation availability of Sentinel-1,
deforestation events were detected more timely with Sentinel-1 than
compared to Landsat and ALOS-2 PALSAR-2. The spatial and temporal
accuracies of the multi-sensor approach were higher than the
single-sensor results. We improved the precision of the reference data
derived from the multi-sensor satellite time series, which enabled a
more robust estimation of the temporal accuracy. We quantified how the
near real-time deforestation detection is associated with a trade-off
between the confidence in detection and the temporal accuracy. We showed
that the trade-off affects the choice on how to use the near-real time
data for different applications such as fast alerting with high temporal
accuracy but lower confidence versus accurate detection at lower
temporal detail. When aiming for a high confidence in change area
estimates for example, deforestation was detected with a user's accuracy
of 88%, a producer's accuracy of 89% (low area bias), and a mean time
lag of 31 days using all sensors. This is on average 7 days earlier than
when using only Sentinel-1 observations, and six weeks earlier than when
relying only on Landsat observations. We showed that confident near
real-time deforestation alerts can be provided with a mean time lag of
22 days, but these are associated with a higher commission error. With
more dense time series data expected from the Sentinel-1 and -2 sensors
for the upcoming decade, spatial and temporal detection accuracy of
multi-sensor deforestation monitoring in the tropics will improve
further.

### Regional clustering-based spatial preprocessing for hyperspectral unmixing

Authors:
Xu, X; Li, J; Wu, CS; Plaza, A

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 333-346; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Hyperspectral unmixing is an important technique for remote sensing
image exploitation. It aims to decompose a mixed pixel into a collection
of spectrally pure components (called endmembers), and their
corresponding proportions (called fractional abundances). In recent
years, many studies have revealed that unmixing using spectral
information alone does not sufficiently incorporate the spatial
information in the remotely sensed hyperspectral image, as the pixels
are treated as isolated entities without taking into account the
existing local correlation among them. To address this issue, several
spatial preprocessing methods have been developed to include spatial
information in the spectral unmixing process. In this paper, we present
a new spatial preprocessing method which presents several advantages
over existing methods. The proposed method is derived from the Simple
Linear Iterative Clustering (SLIC) method, which adapts the global
search scope of the clustering into local regions. As a result, the
spatial correlation and the spectral similarity are intrinsically
incorporated at the clustering step, which results in O(N) computational
complexity of the clustering procedure with N being the number of pixels
in the image. First, a regional clustering is iteratively performed by
using spatial and spectral information simultaneously. The obtained
result is a set of clustered partitions that exhibit both spectral
similarity and spatial correlation. Then, for each partition we select a
subset of candidate pixels with high spectral purity. Finally, the
obtained candidate pixels are gathered together and fed to a
spectral-based endmember extraction method to extract the final
endmembers and their corresponding fractional abundances. Our newly
developed method naturally integrates the spatial and the spectral
information to retain the most relevant endmember candidates. Our
experimental results, conducted using both synthetic and real
hyperspectral scenes, indicate that the proposed method can obtain
accurate unmixing results with less than 0.5% of the number of pixels
used by other state-of-the-art methods. This confirms the advantages of
integrating spatial and spectral information for hyperspectral unmixing
purposes.

### Information theoretic evaluation of satellite soil moisture retrievals

Authors:
Kumar, SV; Dirmeyer, PA; Peters-Lidard, CD; Bindlish, R; Bolten, J

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 392-400; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Microwave radiometry has a long legacy of providing estimates of
remotely sensed near surface soil moisture measurements over continental
and global scales. A consistent assessment of the errors and
uncertainties associated with these retrievals is important for their
effective utilization in modeling, data assimilation and end use
application environments. This article presents an evaluation of soil
moisture retrieval products from AMSR-E, ASCAT, SMOS, AMSR2 and SMAP
instruments using information theory-based metrics. These metrics rely
on time series analysis of soil moisture retrievals for estimating the
measurement error, level of randomness (entropy) and regularity
(complexity) of the data. The results of the study indicate that the
measurement errors in the remote sensing retrievals are significantly
larger than that of the ground soil moisture measurements. The SMAP
retrievals, on the other hand, were found to have reduced errors
(comparable to those of in-situ datasets), particularly over areas with
moderate vegetation. The SMAP retrievals also demonstrate high
information content relative to other retrieval products, with higher
levels of complexity and reduced entropy. Finally, a joint evaluation of
the entropy and complexity of remotely sensed soil moisture products
indicates that the information content of the AMSR-E, ASCAT, SMOS and
AMSR2 retrievals is low, whereas SMAP retrievals show better
performance. The use of information theoretic assessments is effective
in quantifying the required levels of improvements needed in the remote
sensing soil moisture retrievals to enhance their utility and
information content.

### Sentinel-2 cropland mapping using pixel-based and object-based time-weighted dynamic time warping analysis

Authors:
Belgiu, M; Csillik, O

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 509-523; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Efficient methodologies for mapping croplands are an essential condition
for the implementation of sustainable agricultural practices and for
monitoring crops periodically. The increasing spatial and temporal
resolution of globally available satellite images, such as those
provided by Sentinel-2, creates new possibilities for generating
accurate datasets on available crop types, in ready-to-use vector data
format. Existing solutions dedicated to cropland mapping, based on high
resolution remote sensing data, are mainly focused on pixel-based
analysis of time series data. This paper evaluates how a time-weighted
dynamic time warping (TWDTW) method that uses Sentinel-2 time series
performs when applied to pixel-based and object-based classifications of
various crop types in three different study areas (in Romania, Italy and
the USA). The classification outputs were compared to those produced by
Random Forest (RF) for both pixel- and object-based image analysis
units. The sensitivity of these two methods to the training samples was
also evaluated. Object-based TWDTW outperformed pixel-based TWDTW in all
three study areas, with overall accuracies ranging between 78.05% and
96.19%; it also proved to be more efficient in terms of computational
time. TWDTW achieved comparable classification results to RF in Romania
and Italy, but RF achieved better results in the USA, where the
classified crops present high intra-class spectral variability.
Additionally, TWDTW proved to be less sensitive in relation to the
training samples. This is an important asset in areas where inputs for
training samples are limited.

### Mapping forest change using stacked generalization: An ensemble approach

Authors:
Healey, SP; Cohen, WB; Yang, ZQ; Brewer, CK; Brooks, EB; Gorelick, N;
Hernandez, AJ; Huang, CQ; Hughes, MJ; Kennedy, RE; Loveland, TR; Moisen,
GG; Schroeder, TA; Stehman, SV; Vogelmann, JE; Woodcock, CE; Yang, LM;
Zhu, Z

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 717-728; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
The ever-increasing volume and accessibility of remote sensing data has
spawned many alternative approaches for mapping important environmental
features and processes. For example, there are several viable but highly
varied strategies for using time series of Landsat imagery to detect
changes in forest cover. Performance among algorithms varies across
complex natural systems, and it is reasonable to ask if aggregating the
strengths of an ensemble of classifiers might result in increased
overall accuracy. Relatively simple rules have been used in the past to
aggregate classifications among remotely sensed maps (e.g. using
majority predictions), and in other fields, empirical models have been
used to create situationally specific algorithm weights. The latter
process, called "stacked generalization" (or "stacking"), typically uses
a parametric model for the fusion of algorithm outputs. We tested the
performance of several leading forest disturbance detection algorithms
against ensembles of the outputs of those same algorithms based upon
stacking using both parametric and Random Forests-based fusion rules.
Stacking using a Random Forests model cut omission and commission error
rates in half in many cases in relation to individual change detection
algorithms, and cut error rates by one quarter compared to more
conventional parametric stacking. Stacking also offers two auxiliary
benefits: alignment of outputs to the precise definitions built into a
particular set of empirical calibration data; and, outputs which may be
adjusted such that map class totals match independent estimates of
change in each year. In general, ensemble predictions improve when new
inputs are added that are both informative and uncorrelated with
existing ensemble components. As increased use of cloud-based computing
makes ensemble mapping methods more accessible, the most useful new
algorithms may be those that specialize in providing spectral, temporal,
or thematic information not already available through members of
existing ensembles.

### Development and assessment of the SMAP enhanced passive soil moisture product

Authors:
Chan, SK; Bindlish, R; O'Neill, P; Jackson, T; Njoku, E; Dunbar, S;
Chaubell, J; Piepmeier, J; Yueh, S; Entekhabi, D; Colliander, A; Chen,
F; Cosh, MH; Caldwell, T; Walker, J; Berg, A; McNairn, H; Thibeault, M;
Martinez-Fernandez, J; Uldall, F; Seyfried, M; Bosch, D; Starks, P;
Collins, CH; Prueger, J; van der Velde, R; Asanuma, J; Palecki, M;
Small, EE; Zreda, M; Calvet, J; Crow, WT; Kerr, Y

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 931-941; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Launched in January 2015, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA) Soil Moisture Active Passive (SMAP) observatory
was designed to provide frequent global mapping of high-resolution soil
moisture and freeze-thaw state every two to three days using a radar and
a radiometer operating at L-band frequencies. Despite a hardware mishap
that rendered the radar inoperable shortly after launch, the radiometer
continues to operate nominally, returning more than two years of science
data that have helped to improve existing hydrological applications and
foster new ones.Beginning in late 2016 the SMAP project launched a suite
of new data products with the objective of recovering some
high-resolution observation capability loss resulting from the radar
malfunction. Among these new data products are the SMAP Enhanced Passive
Soil Moisture Product that was released in December 2016, followed by
the SMAP/Sentinel-1 Active-Passive Soil Moisture Product in April
2017.This article covers the development and assessment of the SMAP
Level 2 Enhanced Passive Soil Moisture Product (L2_SM_P_E). The product
distinguishes itself from the current SMAP Level 2 Passive Soil Moisture
Product (L2_SM_P) in that the soil moisture retrieval is posted on a 9
km grid instead of a 36 km grid. This is made possible by first applying
the Backus-Gilbert optimal interpolation technique to the antenna
temperature (T-A) data in the original SMAP Level 1B Brightness
Temperature Product to take advantage of the overlapped radiometer
footprints on orbit. The resulting interpolated TA data then go through
various correction/calibration procedures to become the SMAP Level 1C
Enhanced Brightness Temperature Product (L1C_TB_E). The L1C_TB_E
product, posted on a 9 km grid, is then used as the primary input to the
current operational SMAP baseline soil moisture retrieval algorithm to
produce L2_SM_P_E as the final output. Images of the new product reveal
enhanced visual features that are not apparent in the standard product.
Based on in situ data from core validation sites and sparse networks
representing different seasons and biomes all over the world,
comparisons between L2_SM_P_E and in situ data were performed for the
duration of April 1, 2015-October 30, 2016. It was found that the
performance of the enhanced 9 km L2_SM_P_E is equivalent to that of the
standard 36 km L2_SM_P, attaining a retrieval uncertainty below 0.040
m(3)/m(3) unbiased root-mean-square error (ubRMSE) and a correlation
coefficient above 0.800. This assessment also affirmed that the Single
Channel Algorithm using the V-polarized T-B channel (SCA-V) delivered
the best retrieval performance among the various algorithms implemented
for L2_SM_P_E, a result similar to a previous assessment for L2_SM_P.

### Building a pedotransfer function for soil bulk density on regional dataset and testing its validity over a larger area

Authors:
Chen, SC; Richer-De-Forges, AC; Saby, NPA; Martin, MP; Walter, C;
Arrouays, D

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 312 52-63; FEB 15 2018 

Abstract:
Though soil bulk density (BD) is important for crop growth and land
management, information about BD is often missing in soil database due
to the fact that the determination of BD is time consuming and labor
intensive. In order to fill this gap, pedotransfer functions (PTFs) have
been developed for predicting bulk density during last decades. To avoid
non-valid extrapolation, the validity domain of PTFs should be
investigated. In this study, a PTFs for bulk density was built using GBM
model on data from Region Centre and we tested its validity on data from
mainland France except Region Centre. Standardized Euclidean distance
was applied to distinguish dissimilar soil samples from Region Centre
data and other regions data. The established PTFs were not suitable for
predicting these dissimilar samples. In order to make a balance between
prediction accuracy and the number of samples can be predicted with our
PTFs, different cutoff limits of Standardized Euclidean distance was
compared. When optimized distance cutoff limit was at 97%, compared to
result without excluding dissimilar samples, RMSPE value on test data
decreased from 0.179 to 0.163 g cm(-3). An additional sampling strategy
based on these dissimilar samples can improve the predictive ability of
PTFs. We also suggest that the purposive sampling strategy or the
systematic and dense sampling strategy will do large contribution in
robust modelling of PTFs.



















