---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-05-17
modified: 2018-05-17
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #11

* Epikarst mapping by remote sensing
* Predictive mapping of soil-landscape relationships in the arid Southwest United States
* Global linkages between teleconnection patterns and the terrestrial biosphere
* A scale self-adapting segmentation approach and knowledge transfer for automatically updating land use/cover change databases using high spatial resolution images
* Towards machine ecoregionalization of Earth's landmass using pattern segmentation method
* Laser-based spectroscopic methods to evaluate the humification degree of soil organic matter in whole soils: a review
* Better models are more effectively connected models
* Multi-scale relief model (MSRM): a new algorithm for the visualization of subtle topographic change of variable size in digital elevation models
* Deep learning in agriculture: A survey
* Mapping agricultural land abandonment from spatial and temporal segmentation of Landsat time series
* How far are we from the use of satellite rainfall products in landslide forecasting?
* Mapping rootable depth and root zone plant-available water holding capacity of the soil of sub-Saharan Africa
* Accounting for non-stationary variance in geostatistical mapping of soil properties
* Global environmental costs of China's thirst for milk
* Exploring the case for a national-scale soil conservation and soil condition framework for evaluating and reporting on environmental and land use policies















































<!--more-->

### Epikarst mapping by remote sensing

Authors:
Pardo-Iguzquiza, E; Dowd, PA; Ruiz-Constan, A; Martos-Rosillo, S;
Luque-Espinar, JA; Rodriguez-Galiano, V; Pedrera, A

Source:
*CATENA*, 165 1-11; JUN 2018 

Abstract:
Epikarst the shallow, surficial part of a karstic massif - has a
significant influence on the spatio-temporal variability of recharge and
the hydrodynamic functioning of many karst aquifers. In the
Mediterranean morphoclimatic zone, the average thickness of a
well-developed epikarst is around ten metres, but the spatial patterns
of its degree of development are very heterogeneous due to the complex
interaction of a number of different factors such as lithology,
fracturing, weathering, soil and vegetation. In addition, direct field
observation is difficult because good outcropping conditions are
restricted to particular locations, some areas are not accessible and
the size of the study area is often too large for exhaustive field
surveys. Satellite-based remote sensing, however, provides a complete
coverage of an entire area with spectral resolutions that detect
variability in features that can define image textures related to the
development of the epikarst. This paper describes a quantitative
methodology for epikarst mapping using satellite images and field data.
The proposed method comprises an unsupervised classification to define
the spectral signature of each of three epikarst development categories
in a high-resolution satellite image followed by a supervised
classification of the terrain into one of the three categories on a low
spatial resolution scale. The training areas in the field are assigned
to the three categories by a panel of experts using the Delphi method.
Geophysical data are used for validation to overcome any bias that may
be introduced by the panel. The proposed methodology has been applied to
the Sierra de las Nieves karstic aquifer (Malaga, southern Spain). The
outcome is a map of estimated epikarst development that is an
approximation to reality and which can be improved as more experimental
data become available.

### Predictive mapping of soil-landscape relationships in the arid Southwest United States

Authors:
Regmi, NR; Rasmussen, C

Source:
*CATENA*, 165 473-486; JUN 2018 

Abstract:
Multi-scale geospatial and absolute variation of surface and
near-surface soil physical and chemical properties can be mapped and
quantified by coupling digital soil mapping techniques with high
resolution remote sensing products. The goal of this research was to
advance data-driven digital soil mapping techniques by developing an
approach that can integrate multi-scale digital surface topography and
reflectance-derived remote sensing products, and characterize
multi-scale soil-landscape relations of Quaternary alluvial and eolian
deposits. The study area spanned the arid landscape encompassed by the
Barry M. Goldwater Range West (BMGRW), which is administered by the
Marine Corps Air Station Yuma, in southwestern Arizona, USA. An
iterative principal component analysis (iPCA) was implemented for LiDAR
elevation- and Landsat ETM + -derived soil predictors, termed
environmental covariates. Principal components that characterize > 95%
of covariate space variability were then integrated and classified using
an ISODATA (Iterative Self-Organizing Data) unsupervised technique. The
classified map was further segmented into polygons based on a region
growing algorithm, yielding multi scale maps of soil-landscape relations
that were compared with maps of soil landforms identified from aerial
photographs, satellite images and field observation. The approach
identified and mapped the spatial variability of soil-landscape
relationships in alluvial and eolian deposits and illustrated the
applicability of coupling covariate selection and integration by iPCA,
ISODATA classification of integrated data layers, and image segmentation
for effective spatial prediction of soil landscape characteristics. The
approach developed here is data driven, applicable for multi-scale
mapping, allows incorporation of a wide variety of covariates, and maps
spatially homogenous soil-landscape units that are necessary for
hydrologic models, land and ecosystem management decisions, and hazard
assessment.

### Global linkages between teleconnection patterns and the terrestrial biosphere

Authors:
Dahlin, KM; Ault, TR

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 69 56-63; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
Interannual variability In the global carbon cycle is largely due to
variations in carbon uptake by terrestrial ecosystems, yet linkages
between climate variability and variability in the terrestrial carbon
cycle are not well understood at the global scale. Using a 30-year
satellite record of semi-monthly leaf area index (LAI), we show that
four modes of climate variability El Nino/Southern Oscillation, the
North Atlantic Oscillation, the Atlantic Meridional Mode, and the Indian
Ocean Dipole Mode strongly impact interannual vegetation growth
patterns, with 68% of the land surface impacted by at least one of these
teleconnection patterns, yet the spatial distribution of these impacts
is heterogeneous. Considering the patterns' impacts by biome, none has
an exclusively positive or negative relationship with LAI. Our findings
imply that future changes in the frequency and/or magnitude of
teleconnection patterns will lead to diverse changes to the terrestrial
biosphere and the global carbon cycle.

### A scale self-adapting segmentation approach and knowledge transfer for automatically updating land use/cover change databases using high spatial resolution images

Authors:
Wang, ZH; Yang, XM; Lu, C; Yang, FS

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 69 88-98; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
Automatic updating of land use/cover change (LUCC) databases using high
spatial resolution images (HSRI) is important for environmental
monitoring and policy making, especially for coastal areas that connect
the land and coast and that tend to change frequently. Many object-based
change detection methods are proposed, especially those combining
historical LUCC with HSRI. However, the scale parameter(s) segmenting
the serial temporal images, which directly determines the average object
size, is hard to choose without experts' intervention. And the samples
transferred from historical LUCC also need experts' intervention to
avoid insufficient or wrong samples. With respect to the scale
parameter(s) choosing, a Scale Self-Adapting Segmentation (SSAS)
approach based on the exponential sampling of a scale parameter and
location of the local maximum of a weighted local variance was proposed
to determine the scale selection problem when segmenting images
constrained by LUCC for detecting changes. With respect to the samples
transferring, Knowledge Transfer (KT), a classifier trained on
historical images with LUCC and applied in the classification of updated
images, was also proposed. Comparison experiments were conducted in a
coastal area of Zhujiang, China, using SPOT 5 images acquired in 2005
and 2010. The results reveal that (1) SSAS can segment images more
effectively without intervention of experts. (2) KT can also reach the
maximum accuracy of samples transfer without experts' intervention.
Strategy SSAS + KT would be a good choice if the temporal historical
image and LUCC match, and the historical image and updated image are
obtained from the same resource.

### Towards machine ecoregionalization of Earth's landmass using pattern segmentation method

Authors:
Nowosad, J; Stepinski, TF

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 69 110-118; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
We present and evaluate a quantitative method for delineation of
ecophysiographic regions throughout the entire terrestrial landmass. The
method uses the new pattern-based segmentation technique which attempts
to emulate the qualitative, weight-of-evidence approach to a delineation
of ecoregions in a computer code. An ecophysiographic region is
characterized by homogeneous physiography defined by the cohesiveness of
patterns of four variables: land cover, soils, landforms, and climatic
patterns. Homogeneous physiography is a necessary but not sufficient
condition for a region to be an ecoregion, thus machine delineation of
ecophysiographic regions is the first, important step toward global
ecoregionalization. In this paper, we focus on the first-order
approximation of the proposed method - delineation on the basis of the
patterns of the land cover alone. We justify this approximation by the
existence of significant spatial associations between various
physiographic variables. Resulting ecophysiographic regionalization
(ECOR) is shown to be more physiographically homogeneous than existing
global ecoregionalizations (Terrestrial Ecoregions of the World (TEW)
and Bailey's Ecoregions of the Continents (BEC)). The presented
quantitative method has an advantage of being transparent and objective.
It can be verified, easily updated, modified and customized for specific
applications. Each region in ECOR contains detailed, SQL-searchable
information about physiographic patterns within it. It also has a
computer-generated label. To give a sense of how ECOR compares to TEW
and, in the U.S., to EPA Level III ecoregions, we contrast these
different delineations using two specific sites as examples. We conclude
that ECOR yields regionalization somewhat similar to EPA level M
ecoregions, but for the entire world, and by automatic means.

### Laser-based spectroscopic methods to evaluate the humification degree of soil organic matter in whole soils: a review

Authors:
Senesi, GS; Martin-Neto, L; Villas-Boas, PR; Nicolodelli, G; Milori,
DMBP

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 18 (4):1292-1302; APR 2018 

Abstract:
The objective of this review is to survey critically the results
obtained by the application of laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy
(LIFS) and laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) to the evaluation
of the humification degree (HD) of soil organic matter (SOM) directly in
untreated, intact whole soils.A large number of soils of various origin
and nature, either native or under various cultivations, land use, and
management, at various depths, have been studied to evaluate the HD of
their SOM directly in intact whole samples. The LIFS spectra were
obtained by either a bench or a portable argon laser apparatus that
emits UV-VIS light of high power, whereas the LIBS spectra were obtained
using a Q-switched Nd:YAG laser at 1064 nm.The close correlations found
by comparing H-LIF values of whole soil samples with values of earlier
proposed humification indexes confirmed the applicability of LIFS to
assess the HD of SOM in whole soils. The high correlation found between
HDLIBS values and H-LIF values showed the promising potential of LIBS
for the evaluation HD of SOM.The LIFS technique shows to be a valuable
alternative to evaluate the HD of SOM by probing directly the whole
solid soil sample, thus avoiding the use of any previous chemical and/or
physical treatments or separation procedures of SOM from the mineral
soil matrix. The emerging application of LIBS to evaluate the HD of SOM
in whole soils appears promising and appealing due to its sensitivity,
selectivity, accuracy, and precision.

### Better models are more effectively connected models

Authors:
Nunes, JP; Wainwright, J; Bielders, CL; Darboux, F; Fiener, P; Finger,
D; Turnbull, L

Source:
*EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS*, 43 (6):1355-1360; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Water- and sediment-transfer models are commonly used to explain or
predict patterns in the landscape at scales different from those at
which observations are available. These patterns are often the result of
emergent properties that occur because processes of water and sediment
transfer are connected in different ways. Recent advances in
geomorphology suggest that it is important to consider, at a specific
spatio-temporal scale, the structural connectivity of system properties
that control processes, and the functional connectivity resulting from
the way those processes operate and evolve through time. We argue that a
more careful consideration of how structural and functional connectivity
are represented in models should lead to more robust models that are
appropriate for the scale of application and provide results that can be
upscaled. This approach is necessary because, notwithstanding the
significant advances in computer power in recent years, many geomorphic
models are still unable to represent the landscape in sufficient detail
to allow all connectivity to emerge. It is important to go beyond the
simple representation of structural connectivity elements and allow the
dynamics of processes to be represented, for example by using a
connectivity function. This commentary aims to show how a better
representation of connectivity in models can be achieved, by considering
the sorts of landscape features present, and whether these features can
be represented explicitly in the model spatial structure, or must be
represented implicitly at the subgrid scale.

### Multi-scale relief model (MSRM): a new algorithm for the visualization of subtle topographic change of variable size in digital elevation models

Authors:
Orengo, HA; Petrie, CA

Source:
*EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS*, 43 (6):1361-1369; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Morphological analysis of landforms has traditionally relied on the
interpretation of imagery. Although imagery provides a natural view of
an area of interest (AOI) images are largely hindered by the
environmental conditions at the time of image acquisition, the quality
of the image and, mainly, the lack of topographical information, which
is an essential factor for a correct understanding of the AOI's
geomorphology.More recently digital surface models (DSMs) have been
incorporated into the analytical toolbox of geomorphologists. These are
usually high-resolution models derived from digital photogrammetric
processes or LiDAR data. However, these are restricted to relatively
small areas and are expensive or complex to acquire, which limits
widespread implementation.In this paper, we present the multi-scale
relief model (MSRM), which is a new algorithm for the visual
interpretation of landforms using DSMs. The significance of this new
method lies in its capacity to extract landform morphology from both
high- and low-resolution DSMs independently of the shape or scale of the
landform under study. This method thus provides important advantages
compared to previous approaches as it: (1) allows the use of worldwide
medium resolution models, such as SRTM, ASTER GDEM, ALOS, and TanDEM-X;
(2) offers an alternative to traditional photograph interpretation that
does not rely on the quality of the imagery employed nor on the
environmental conditions and time of its acquisition; and (3) can be
easily implemented for large areas using traditional GIS/RS software.The
algorithm is tested in the Sutlej-Yamuna interfluve, which is a very
large low-relief alluvial plain in northwest India where 10 000 km of
palaeoriver channels have been mapped using MSRM. The code, written in
Google Earth Engine's implementation of JavaScript, is provided as
Supporting Information for its use in any other AOI without particular
technical knowledge or access to topographical data

### Deep learning in agriculture: A survey

Authors:
Kamilaris, A; Prenafeta-Boldu, FX

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 147 70-90; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Deep learning constitutes a recent, modem technique for image processing
and data analysis, with promising results and large potential. As deep
learning has been successfully applied in various domains, it has
recently entered also the domain of agriculture. In this paper, we
perform a survey of 40 research efforts that employ deep learning
techniques, applied to various agricultural and food production
challenges. We examine the particular agricultural problems under study,
the specific models and frameworks employed, the sources, nature and
pre-processing of data used, and the overall performance achieved
according to the metrics used at each work under study. Moreover, we
study comparisons of deep learning with other existing popular
techniques, in respect to differences in classification or regression
performance. Our findings indicate that deep learning provides high
accuracy, outperforming existing commonly used image processing
techniques.

### Mapping agricultural land abandonment from spatial and temporal segmentation of Landsat time series

Authors:
Yin, H; Prishchepov, AV; Kuemmerle, T; Bleyhl, B; Buchner, J; Radeloff,
VC

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 210 12-24; JUN 1 2018 

Abstract:
Agricultural land abandonment is a common land-use change, making the
accurate mapping of both location and timing when agricultural land
abandonment occurred important to understand its environmental and
social outcomes. However, it is challenging to distinguish agricultural
abandonment from transitional classes such as fallow land at high
spatial resolutions due to the complexity of change process. To date, no
robust approach exists to detect when agricultural land abandonment
occurred based on 30-m Landsat images. Our goal here was to develop a
new approach to detect the extent and the exact timing of agricultural
land abandonment using spatial and temporal segments derived from
Landsat time series. We tested our approach for one Landsat footprint in
the Caucasus, covering parts of Russia and Georgia, where agricultural
land abandonment is widespread. First, we generated agricultural land
image objects from multi-date Landsat imagery using a multi resolution
segmentation approach. Second, we estimated the probability for each
object that agricultural land was used each year based on Landsat
temporal-spectral metrics and a random forest model. Third, we applied
temporal segmentation of the resulting agricultural land probability
time series to identify change classes and detect when abandonment
occurred. We found that our approach was able to accurately separate
agricultural abandonment from active agricultural lands, fallow land,
and re-cultivation. Our spatial and temporal segmentation approach
captured the changes at the object level well (overall mapping accuracy
= 97 +/- 1%), and performed substantially better than pixel-level change
detection (overall accuracy = 82 +/- 3%). We found strong spatial and
temporal variations in agricultural land abandonment rates in our study
area, likely a consequence of regional wars after the collapse of the
Soviet Union. In summary, the combination of spatial and temporal
segmentation approaches of time-series is a robust method to track
agricultural land abandonment and may be relevant for other land-use
changes as well.

### How far are we from the use of satellite rainfall products in landslide forecasting?

Authors:
Brunetti, MT; Melillo, M; Peruccacci, S; Ciabatta, L; Brocca, L

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 210 65-75; JUN 1 2018 

Abstract:
Satellite rainfall products have been available for many years (since
'90) with an increasing spatial/temporal resolution and accuracy. Their
global scale coverage and near real-time products perfectly fit the need
of an early warning landslide system. Notwithstanding these
characteristics, the number of studies employing satellite rainfall
estimates for predicting landslide events is quite limited.In this
study, we propose a procedure that allows us to evaluate the capability
of different rainfall products to forecast the spatial -temporal
occurrence of rainfall -induced landslides using rainfall thresholds.
Specifically, the assessment is carried out in terms of skill scores,
and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The procedure is
applied to ground observations and four different satellite rainfall
estimates: 1) the Tropical Rainfall Measurement Mission Multi -satellite
Precipitation Analysis, TMPA, real time product (3642-RT), 2) the
SM2RASC product obtained from the application of SM2RAIN algorithm to
the Advanced SCATterometer (ASCAT) derived satellite soil moisture (SM)
data, 3) the Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information
using Artificial Neural Network (PERSIANN), and 4) the Climate
Prediction Center (CPC) Morphing Technique (CMORPH). As case study, we
consider the Italian territory for which a catalogue listing 1414
rainfall induced landslides in the period 2008-2014 is available.Results
show that satellite products underestimate rainfall with respect to
ground observations. However, by adjusting the rainfall thresholds,
satellite products are able to identify landslide occurrence, even
though with less accuracy than ground-based rainfall observations. Among
the four satellite rainfall products, CMORPH and SM2RASC are performing
the best, even though differences are small. This result is to be
attributed to the high spatial/temporal resolution of CMORPH, and the
good accuracy of SM2RSC. Overall, we believe that satellite rainfall
estimates might be an important additional data source for developing
continental or global landslide warning systems.


### Mapping rootable depth and root zone plant-available water holding capacity of the soil of sub-Saharan Africa

Authors:
Leenaars, JGB; Claessens, L; Heuvelink, GBM; Hengla, T; Gonzalez, MR;
van Bussel, LGJ; Guilpart, N; Yang, HS; Cassman, KG

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 324 18-36; AUG 15 2018 

Abstract:
In rainfed crop production, root zone plant-available water holding
capacity (RZ-PAWHC) of the soil has a large influence on crop growth and
the yield response to management inputs such as improved seeds and
fertilisers. However, data are lacking for this parameter in sub-Saharan
Africa (SSA). This study produced the first spatially explicit, coherent
and complete maps of the rootable depth and RZ-PAWHC of soil in SSA. We
compiled georeferenced data from 28,000 soil profiles from SSA, which
were used as input for digital soil mapping (DSM) techniques to produce
soil property maps of SSA. Based on these soil properties, we developed
and parameterised (pedotransfer) functions, rules and criteria to
evaluate soil water retention at field capacity and wilting point, the
soil fine earth fraction from coarse fragments content and, for maize,
the soil rootability (relative to threshold values) and rootable depth.
Maps of these secondary soil properties were derived using the primary
soil property maps as input for the evaluation rules and the results
were aggregated over the rootable depth to obtain a map of RZ-PAWHC,
with a spatial resolution of 1 km(2). The mean RZ-PAWHC for SSA is 74 mm
and the associated average root zone depth is 96 cm. Pearson correlation
between the two is 0.95. RZ-PAWHC proves most limited by the rootable
depth but is also highly sensitive to the definition of field capacity.
The total soil volume of SSA potentially rootable by maize is reduced by
one third (over 10,500 km(3)) due to soil conditions restricting root
zone depth. Of these, 4800 km(3) are due to limited depth of aeration,
which is the factor most severely limiting in terms of extent (km2), and
2500 km(3) due to sodicity which is most severely limiting in terms of
degree (depth in cm). Depth of soil to bedrock reduces the rootable soil
volume by 2500 km(3), aluminium toxicity by 600 km(3), porosity by 120
km(3) and alkalinity by 20 km(3). The accuracy of the map of rootable
depth and thus of RZ-PAWHC could not be validated quantitatively due to
absent data on rootability and rootable depth but is limited by the
accuracy of the primary soil property maps. The methodological framework
is robust and has been operationalised such that the maps can easily be
updated as additional data become available.

### Accounting for non-stationary variance in geostatistical mapping of soil properties

Authors:
Wadoux, AMJC; Brus, DJ; Heuvelink, GBM

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 324 138-147; AUG 15 2018 

Abstract:
Simple and ordinary kriging assume a constant mean and variance of the
soil variable of interest. This assumption is often implausible because
the mean and/or variance are linked to terrain attributes, parent
material or other soil forming factors. In kriging with external drift
(KED) non-stationarity in the mean is accounted for by modelling it as a
linear combination of covariates. In this study, we applied an extension
of KED that also accounts for non-stationary variance. Similar to the
mean, the variance is modelled as a linear combination of covariates.
The set of covariates for the mean may differ from the set for the
variance. The best combinations of covariates for the mean and variance
are selected using Akaike's information criterion. Model parameters of
the selected model are then estimated by differential evolution using
the Restricted Maximum Likelihood (REML) in the objective function. The
methodology was tested in a small area of the Hunter Valley, NSW
Australia, where samples from a fine grid with gamma K measurements were
treated as measurements of the variable of interest. Terrain attributes
were used as covariates. Both a non-stationary variance and a stationary
variance model were calibrated. The mean squared prediction errors of
the two models were somewhat comparable. However, the uncertainty about
the predictions was much better quantified by the non-stationary
variance model, as indicated by the mean and median of the standardized
squared prediction error and by accuracy plots. We conclude that the non
-stationary variance model is more flexible and better suited for
uncertainty quantification of a mapped soil property. However, parameter
estimation of the non -stationary variance model requires more attention
due to possible singularity of the covariance matrix.

### Global environmental costs of China's thirst for milk

Authors:
Bai, ZH; Lee, MRF; Ma, L; Ledgard, S; Oenema, O; Velthof, GL; Ma, WQ;
Guo, MC; Zhao, ZQ; Wei, S; Li, SL; Liu, X; Havlik, P; Luo, JF; Hu, CS;
Zhang, FS

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (5):2198-2211; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
China has an ever-increasing thirst for milk, with a predicted 3.2-fold
increase in demand by 2050 compared to the production level in 2010.
What are the environmental implications of meeting this demand, and what
is the preferred pathway? We addressed these questions by using a nexus
approach, to examine the interdependencies of increasing milk
consumption in China by 2050 and its global impacts, under different
scenarios of domestic milk production and importation. Meeting China's
milk demand in a business as usual scenario will increase global
dairy-related (China and the leading milk exporting regions) greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions by 35% (from 565 to 764Tg CO2eq) and land use for
dairy feed production by 32% (from 84 to 111 million ha) compared to
2010, while reactive nitrogen losses from the dairy sector will increase
by 48% (from 3.6 to 5.4Tg nitrogen). Producing all additional milk in
China with current technology will greatly increase animal feed import;
from 1.9 to 8.5Tg for concentrates and from 1.0 to 6.2Tg for forage
(alfalfa). In addition, it will increase domestic dairy related GHG
emissions by 2.2 times compared to 2010 levels. Importing the extra milk
will transfer the environmental burden from China to milk exporting
countries; current dairy exporting countries may be unable to produce
all additional milk due to physical limitations or environmental
preferences/legislation. For example, the farmland area for cattle-feed
production in New Zealand would have to increase by more than 57% (1.3
million ha) and that in Europe by more than 39% (15 million ha), while
GHG emissions and nitrogen losses would increase roughly proportionally
with the increase of farmland in both regions. We propose that a more
sustainable dairy future will rely on high milk demanding regions (such
as China) improving their domestic milk and feed production efficiencies
up to the level of leading milk producing countries. This will decrease
the global dairy related GHG emissions and land use by 12% (90Tg CO2eq
reduction) and 30% (34 million ha land reduction) compared to the
business as usual scenario, respectively. However, this still represents
an increase in total GHG emissions of 19% whereas land use will decrease
by 8% when compared with 2010 levels, respectively.

### Exploring the case for a national-scale soil conservation and soil condition framework for evaluating and reporting on environmental and land use policies

Authors:
Humphries, RN; Brazier, RE

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 34 (1):134-146; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
It has long been realized that the conservation of soil capital and
ecosystem services are of paramount importance, resulting in a growing
case for a change in attitude and policymaking in respect of soils.
Current UK and EU approaches are risk-based and focused on measures to
manage and remediate the adverse impact of current policies and
practices directed at maximizing productivity and profit, rather than
one of resource conservation. Increasing soil loss and degradation is
evidence that current policy is not working and a new approach is
needed. In the UK there is governmental ambition to progress towards
natural capital-led land use policies but, in the absence of a framework
to determine the relative condition of the soil resource, the delivery
of sustainable soil conservation policies will continue to be inhibited.
Common Standards Monitoring (CSM) is an established monitoring and
management framework (based on ecosystem structure, function and
process) and has been effectively deployed for almost two decades by the
UK Government for the monitoring and reporting of key biological and
earth science natural capital and ecosystem services from field' to
local, regional and national levels to the European Commission. It is
argued that a CSM for soils could be developed for the UK's soil
resources as well as for those elsewhere, and would be able to deliver a
conservation rather than the current risk-based approach. It is capable
of accommodating the complexities and variation in soil types and
functions and potentially being practical and cost-effective in its
implementation.














