---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-08-21
modified: 2018-08-21
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #16


* Soil bacterial networks are less stable under drought than fungal networks
* A Robust Calibration Method for Continental-Scale Soil Water Content Measurements
* Lysimeters in Vadose Zone Research
* Links among warming, carbon and microbial dynamics mediated by soil mineral weathering
* Analyzing the mixing performance of a rotary spader using digital image processing and discrete element modelling (DEM)
* Machine learning approaches for crop yield prediction and nitrogen status estimation in precision agriculture: A review


<!--more-->

### Soil bacterial networks are less stable under drought than fungal networks

Authors:
de Vries, FT; Griffiths, RI; Bailey, M; Craig, H; Girlanda, M; Gweon,
HS; Hallin, S; Kaisermann, A; Keith, AM; Kretzschmar, M; Lemanceau, P;
Lumini, E; Mason, KE; Oliver, A; Ostle, N; Prosser, JI; Thion, C;
Thomson, B; Bardgett, RD

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 9 3033-3033; AUG 2 2018 

Abstract:
Soil microbial communities play a crucial role in ecosystem functioning,
but it is unknown how co-occurrence networks within these communities
respond to disturbances such as climate extremes. This represents an
important knowledge gap because changes in microbial networks could have
implications for their functioning and vulnerability to future
disturbances. Here, we show in grassland mesocosms that drought promotes
destabilising properties in soil bacterial, but not fungal,
co-occurrence networks, and that changes in bacterial communities link
more strongly to soil functioning during recovery than do changes in
fungal communities. Moreover, we reveal that drought has a prolonged
effect on bacterial communities and their co-occurrence networks via
changes in vegetation composition and resultant reductions in soil
moisture. Our results provide new insight in the mechanisms through
which drought alters soil microbial communities with potential long-term
consequences, including future plant community composition and the
ability of aboveground and belowground communities to withstand future
disturbances.

### A Robust Calibration Method for Continental-Scale Soil Water Content Measurements

Authors:
Roberti, JA; Ayres, E; Loescher, HW; Tang, JW; Starr, G; Durden, DJ;
Smith, DE; de la Reguera, E; Morkeski, K; McKlveen, M; Benstead, H;
SanClements, MD; Lee, RH; Gebremedhin, M; Zulueta, RC

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 17 (1):70177-70177; MAY 24 2018 

Abstract:
Technological advances have allowed in situ monitoring of soil water
content in an automated manner. These advances, along with an increase
in large-scale networks monitoring soil water content, stress the need
for a robust calibration framework that ensures that soil water content
measurements are accurate and reliable. We have developed an approach to
make consistent and comparable soil water content sensor calibrations
across a continental-scale network in a production framework that
incorporates a thorough accounting of uncertainties. More than 150 soil
blocks of varying characteristics from 33 locations across the United
States were used to generate soil-specific calibration coefficients for
a capacitance sensor. We found that the manufacturer's nominal
calibration coefficients poorly fit the data for nearly all soil types.
This resulted in negative (91% of samples) and positive (5% of samples)
biases and a mean root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.123 cm(3) cm(-3) (1
sigma) relative to reference standard measurements. We derived
soil-specific coefficients, and when used with the manufacturer's
nominal function, the biases were corrected and the mean RMSE dropped to
± 0.017 cm(3) cm(-3) (+/- 1 sigma). A logistic calibration function
further reduced the mean RMSE to ± 0.016 cm(3) cm(-3) (+/- 1 sigma)
and increased the range of soil moistures to which the calibration
applied by 18% compared with the manufacturer's function. However, the
uncertainty of the reference standard was notable (+/- 0.022 cm(3)
cm(-3)), and when propagated in quadrature with RMSE estimates, the
combined uncertainty of the calibrated volumetric soil water content
values increased to ± 0.028 cm(3) cm(-3) regardless of the calibration
function used.


### Lysimeters in Vadose Zone Research

Authors:
Putz, T; Fank, J; Flury, M

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 17 (1):80035-80035; MAY 17 2018 

Abstract:
Lysimeters are methodological experimental tools to study the water and
matter fluxes in the vadose zone, as well as the environmental fate of
chemicals. Lysimeters are available in various types. The most
sophisticated lysimeters are filled monolithically, are equipped with a
pressure- controlled lower boundary, and are weighable, allowing the
measurement of hydraulic fluxes, i.e., rainfall, drainage,
evapotranspiration, dew, and hoar frost with high precision. This
special section of Vadose Zone Journal reports on current lysimeter
research.


### Links among warming, carbon and microbial dynamics mediated by soil mineral weathering

Authors:
Doetterl, S; Berhe, AA; Arnold, C; Bode, S; Fiener, P; Finke, P;
Fuchslueger, L; Griepentrog, M; Harden, JW; Nadeu, E; Schnecker, J; Six,
J; Trumbore, S; Van Oost, K; Vogel, C; Boeckx, P

Source:
*NATURE GEOSCIENCE*, 11 (8):589-+; AUG 2018 

Abstract:
Quantifying soil carbon dynamics is of utmost relevance in the context
of global change because soils play an important role in land-atmosphere
gas exchange. Our current understanding of both present and future
carbon dynamics is limited because we fail to accurately represent soil
processes across temporal and spatial scales, partly because of the
paucity of data on the relative importance and hierarchical
relationships between microbial, geochemical and climatic controls.
Here, using observations from a 3,000-kyr-old soil chronosequence
preserved in alluvial terrace deposits of the Merced River, California,
we show how soil carbon dynamics are driven by the relationship between
short-term biotic responses and long-term mineral weathering. We link
temperature sensitivity of heterotrophic respiration to biogeochemical
soil properties through their relationship with microbial activity and
community composition. We found that soil mineralogy, and in particular
changes in mineral reactivity and resulting nutrient availability,
impacts the response of heterotrophic soil respiration to warming by
altering carbon inputs, carbon stabilization, microbial community
composition and extracellular enzyme activity. We demonstrate that
biogeochemical alteration of the soil matrix (and not short-term
warming) controls the composition of microbial communities and
strategies to metabolize nutrients. More specifically, weathering first
increases and then reduces nutrient availability and retention, as well
as the potential of soils to stabilize carbon.


### Analyzing the mixing performance of a rotary spader using digital image processing and discrete element modelling (DEM)

Authors:
Ucgul, M; Saunders, C; Li, Pl; Lee, SH

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 151 1-10; AUG 2018 

Abstract:
In order to incorporate a range of surface applied materials into the
soil profile to ameliorate crop production constraints, rotary spaders
have recently been adopted in Australia. However, no fundamental studies
have been carried out to quantify the mixing ability of rotary spaders.
The discrete element method (DEM) has the potential to model soil to
rotary spader interaction in terms of soil movement. In this study a
full scale rotary spader was tested in the field and then simulated
using DEM. The DEM model predicted top soil burial to a similar depth in
the soil profile as was measured in the field. A method to compare and
quantify soil movement was also developed using digital image
processing. The forward soil movement which was not examined in the
field was also simulated using DEM and it was found that higher forward
speed increases the bite lengths, and hence results a heterogeneous top
soil mixing. It was also found that in order to carry out a proper
analysis, both cross section and forward soil movement must be
considered while quantifying the mixing ability of the rotary spader.
The results of this study proves that (1) DEM can be used to model soil
to rotary spader interaction to analyse different operation conditions
without time consuming and costly field tests which can only be
performed certain times of the year and (2) digital image processing can
be used as a method to quantify and validate simulations of field
experiments.

### Machine learning approaches for crop yield prediction and nitrogen status estimation in precision agriculture: A review

Authors:
Chlingaryan, A; Sukkarieh, S; Whelan, B

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 151 61-69; AUG 2018 

Abstract:
Accurate yield estimation and optimised nitrogen management is essential
in agriculture. Remote sensing (RS) systems are being more widely used
in building decision support tools for contemporary farming systems to
improve yield production and nitrogen management while reducing
operating costs and environmental impact. However, RS based approaches
require processing of enormous amounts of remotely sensed data from
different platforms and, therefore, greater attention is currently being
devoted to machine learning (ML) methods. This is due to the capability
of machine learning based systems to process a large number of inputs
and handle non-linear tasks. This paper discusses research developments
conducted within the last 15 years on machine learning based techniques
for accurate crop yield prediction and nitrogen status estimation. The
paper concludes that the rapid advances in sensing technologies and ML
techniques will provide cost-effective and comprehensive solutions for
better crop and environment state estimation and decision making. More
targeted application of the sensor platforms and ML techniques, the
fusion of different sensor modalities and expert knowledge, and the
development of hybrid systems combining different ML and signal
processing techniques are all likely to be part of precision agriculture
(PA) in the near future.
