---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-11-18
modified: 2018-11-18
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #21


* OMERE: A Long-Term Observatory of Soil and Water Resources, in Interaction with Agricultural and Land Management in Mediterranean Hilly Catchments
* Land-use change affects stocks and stoichiometric ratios of soil carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus in a typical agro-pastoral region of northwest China
* The Efficiency of Data Assimilation
* Cosmic-ray Neutron Rover Surveys of Field Soil Moisture and the Influence of Roads
* A Method for Objectively Integrating Soil Moisture Satellite Observations and Model Simulations Toward a Blended Drought Index
* Alternative Model for Predicting Soil Hydraulic Conductivity Over the Complete Moisture Range
* An automatic variogram modeling method with high reliability fitness and estimates
* MARMIT: A multilayer radiative transfer model of soil reflectance to estimate surface soil moisture content in the solar domain (400-2500 nm)
* A simple method to improve the quality of NDVI time-series data by integrating spatiotemporal information with the Savitzky-Golay filter
* The Chlorophyll Fluorescence Imaging Spectrometer (CFIS), mapping far red fluorescence from aircraft
* Quantifying the uncertainty of soil colour measurements with Munsell charts using a modified attribute agreement analysis
* Multi-decade, multi-sensor time-series modelling-based on geostatistical concepts-to predict broad groups of crops
* Pedotransfer functions for predicting available water capacity in French soils, their applicability domain and associated uncertainty.
* Soil organic carbon storage as a key function of soils - A review of drivers and indicators at various scales













<!--more-->

### OMERE: A Long-Term Observatory of Soil and Water Resources, in Interaction with Agricultural and Land Management in Mediterranean Hilly Catchments

Authors:
Molenat, J; Raclot, D; Zitouna, R; Andrieux, P; Coulouma, G; Feurer, D;
Grunberger, O; Lamachere, JM; Bailly, JS; Belotti, JL; Ben Azzez, K; Ben
Mechlia, N; Louati, MB; Biarnes, A; Blanca, Y; Carriere, D; Chaabane, H;
Dages, C; Debabria, A; Dubreuil, A; Fabre, JC; Fages, D; Floure, C;
Garnier, F; Geniez, C; Gomez, C; Hamdi, R; Huttel, O; Jacob, F;
Jenhaoui, Z; Lagacherie, P; Le Bissonnais, Y; Louati, R; Louchart, X;
Mekki, I; Moussa, R; Negro, S; Pepin, Y; Prevot, L; Samouelian, A;
Seidel, JL; Trotoux, G; Troiano, S; Vinatier, F; Zante, P; Zrelli, J;
Albergel, J; Voltz, M

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 17 (1):80086-80086; NOV 1 2018 

Abstract:
To account for the diversity of agricultural and ecosystem situations in
hilly Mediterranean areas, the agro-hydrological observatory OMERE
(Observatoire Mediterraneen de l'Environnement Rural et de l'Eau)
monitors two farmed catchments-one in northern Tunisia and the other in
southern France. Mediterranean regions are typified by a highly variable
climate, with an alternation of long droughts and intense storms, and by
a strong heterogeneity of soil properties, due to a combination of
climate, relief, parent materials, sparse vegetation, intense land use,
man-made infrastructure (ditches, terraces, etc.), and agricultural
activities. In this context, OMERE aims to document the impacts of
agricultural and land management on mass fluxes in Mediterranean farmed
headwater catchments. The observation strategy is motivated by
monitoring water, sediment, and contaminant fluxes and hydrologic and
climatic variables at different spatial scales from cultivated plots and
landscape elements to the catchment scale. These measurements have been
performed at a fine time resolution over a long-term scale and by
surveying land use, agricultural practices, and soil surface
characteristics. The long-term observation strategy intends to support
integrative multidisciplinary research for elucidating the conditions
that improve soil and water management and delivery of ecosystem
services in a Mediterranean rainfed cultivated context. The observatory
has led to scientific insights regarding three scientific objectives:
(i) to better understand the fluxes of water, erosion, and contaminants,
especially pesticides, and of their natural and anthropogenic drivers on
short- and long-term scales; (ii) to analyze the aggregate effects of
farming and land management on mass fluxes across scales, from plot to
catchment or landscape scales; and (iii) to derive new scenarios for
sustainable agricultural management and improved delivery of ecosystem
services.

### Land-use change affects stocks and stoichiometric ratios of soil carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus in a typical agro-pastoral region of northwest China

Authors:
Liu, X; Li, LH; Wang, Q; Mu, SY

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 18 (11):3167-3176; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
PurposeThe impacts of land-use change on dynamics of soil organic carbon
(SOC), total nitrogen (TN), and total phosphorus (TP) in the subsoil
(>30cm) are poorly understood. This study aims to investigate whether
the effects of land-use change on stocks and stoichiometric ratios
(R-CN, R-CP, and R-NP) of SOC, TN, and TP can be different between
topsoil (0-30cm) and subsoil (30-60cm) in the Ili River Valley,
northwest China.Materials and methodsSoil samples (0-10, 10-20, 20-30,
30-40, 40-50, and 50-60cm) were collected from a pasture (PT), a
27-year-old cropland (CL) converted from PT, and a 13-year-old poplar
(Populus tomentosa Carr.) plantation (PP) converted from CL. SOC, TN,
and TP concentrations and soil bulk density were determined to calculate
stocks and stoichiometric ratios (molar ratios) of SOC, TN, and
TP.Results and discussionConversion from PT to CL led to substantial
losses in SOC, TN, and TP pools in both topsoil and subsoil, and the
reduction rates in subsoil (13.8-24.7%) were higher than those in
topsoil (8.5-17.3%), indicating that C, N, and P pools in subsoil could
also be depleted by cultivation. Similar to topsoil, significant
increases in SOC, TN, and TP stocks were detected after afforestation on
CL in subsoil, although the increase rates (31.2-56.2%) were lower than
those in topsoil (47.8-69.1%). Soil pH and electrical conductivity (EC),
which generally increased after conversion from PT to CL while decreased
after CL afforestation, showed significant negative correlations with
SOC, TN, and TP, suggesting that cultivation might lead to soil
degradation, whereas afforestation contributed to soil restoration in
this area. Significant changes in C:N:Pratios in topsoil were only
detected for R-NP after conversion from CL to PP. By contrast, land-use
change significantly altered both R-CN and R-NP in the subsoil,
demonstrating that the impacts of land-use change on R-CN and R-NP were
different between topsoil and subsoil. The significant relationship
between soil EC and R-NP suggested that R-NP might be a useful indicator
of soil salinization.ConclusionsStocks of SOC, TN, and TP as well as
R-CN and R-NP in subsoil showed different responses to land-use change
compared to those in topsoil in this typical agro-pastoral region.
Therefore, it is suggested that the effects of land-use change on
dynamics of SOC, TN, and TP in subsoil should also be evaluated to
better understand the role of land-use change in global biogeochemical
cycles.

### The Efficiency of Data Assimilation

Authors:
Nearing, G; Yatheendradas, S; Crow, W; Zhan, XW; Liu, JC; Chen, F

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (9):6374-6392; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Data assimilation is the application of Bayes' theorem to condition the
states of a dynamical systems model on observations. Any real-world
application of Bayes' theorem is approximate, and therefore, we cannot
expect that data assimilation will preserve all of the information
available from models and observations. We outline a framework for
measuring information in models, observations, and evaluation data in a
way that allows us to quantify information loss during (necessarily
imperfect) data assimilation. This facilitates quantitative analysis of
trade-offs between improving (usually expensive) remote sensing
observing systems versus improving data assimilation design and
implementation. We demonstrate this methodology on a previously
published application of the ensemble Kalman filter used to assimilate
remote sensing soil moisture retrievals from Advanced Microwave
Scattering Radiometer for Earth (AMSR-E) into the Noah land surface
model.

### Cosmic-ray Neutron Rover Surveys of Field Soil Moisture and the Influence of Roads

Authors:
Schron, M; Rosolem, R; Kohli, M; Piussi, L; Schroter, I; Iwema, J;
Kogler, S; Oswald, SE; Wollschlager, U; Samaniego, L; Dietrich, P;
Zacharias, S

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (9):6441-6459; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Measurements of root-zone soil moisture across spatial scales of tens to
thousands of meters have been a challenge for many decades. The mobile
application of Cosmic Ray Neutron Sensing (CRNS) is a promising approach
to measure field soil moisture noninvasively by surveying large regions
with a ground-based vehicle. Recently, concerns have been raised about a
potentially biasing influence of local structures and roads. We employed
neutron transport simulations and dedicated experiments to quantify the
influence of different road types on the CRNS measurement. We found that
roads introduce a substantial bias in the CRNS estimation of field soil
moisture compared to off-road scenarios. However, this effect becomes
insignificant at distances beyond a few meters from the road. Neutron
measurements on the road could overestimate the field value by up to 40
% depending on road material, width, and the surrounding field water
content. The bias could be largely removed with an analytical correction
function that accounts for these parameters. Additionally, an empirical
approach is proposed that can be used without prior knowledge of field
soil moisture. Tests at different study sites demonstrated good
agreement between road-effect corrected measurements and field soil
moisture observations. However, if knowledge about the road
characteristics is missing, measurements on the road could substantially
reduce the accuracy of this method. Our results constitute a practical
advancement of the mobile CRNS methodology, which is important for
providing unbiased estimates of field-scale soil moisture to support
applications in hydrology, remote sensing, and agriculture.Plain
Language Summary Measurements of root-zone soil moisture across spatial
scales of tens to thousands of meters have been a challenge for many
decades. The mobile application of Cosmic Ray Neutron Sensing (CRNS) is
a promising approach to measure field soil moisture noninvasively by
surveying large regions with a ground-based vehicle. Recently, concerns
have been raised about a potentially biasing influence of roads. We
employed physics simulations and dedicated experiments to quantify the
influence of different road types on the CRNS measurement. We found that
the presence of roads biased the CRNS estimation of field soil moisture
compared to nonroad scenarios. Neutron measurements could overestimate
the field value by up to 40 % depending on road material, width,
surrounding field water content, and distance from the road. We proposed
a correction function that successfully removed this bias and works even
without prior knowledge of field soil moisture. Tests at different study
sites demonstrated good agreement between corrected measurements and
other field soil moisture observations. Our results constitute a
practical advancement of the mobile CRNS methodology, which is important
for providing unbiased estimates of field-scale soil moisture to support
applications in hydrology, remote sensing, and agriculture.


### A Method for Objectively Integrating Soil Moisture Satellite Observations and Model Simulations Toward a Blended Drought Index

Authors:
Yin, JF; Zhan, XW; Hain, CR; Liu, JC; Anderson, MC

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (9):6772-6791; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
With satellite soil moisture (SM) retrievals becoming widely and
continuously available, we aim to develop a method to objectively
integrate the drought indices into one that is more accurate and
consistently reliable. The data sets used in this paper include the Noah
land surface model-based SM estimations,
Atmosphere-Land-Exchange-Inverse model-based Evaporative Stress Index,
and the satellite SM products from the Advanced Scatterometer, WindSat,
Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity, and Soil Moisture Operational Product
System. Using the Triple Collocation Error Model (TCEM) to quantify the
uncertainties of these data, we developed an optically blended drought
index (BDI_b) that objectively integrates drought estimations with the
lowest TCEM-derived root-mean-square-errors in this paper. With respect
to the reported drought records and the drought monitoring benchmarks
including the U.S. Drought Monitor, the Palmer Drought Severity Index
and the standardized precipitation evapotranspiration index products,
the BDI_b was compared with the sample average blending drought index
(BDI_s) and the RMSE-weighted average blending drought indices (BDI_w).
Relative to the BDI_s and the BDI_w, the BDI_b performs more
consistently with the drought monitoring benchmarks. With respect to the
official drought records, the developed BDI_b shows the best performance
on tracking drought development in terms of time evolution and spatial
patterns of 2010-Russia, 2011-USA, 2013-New Zealand droughts and other
reported agricultural drought occurrences over the 2009-2014 period.
These results suggest that model simulations and remotely sensed
observations of SM can be objectively translated into useful information
for drought monitoring and early warning, in turn can reduce drought
risk and impacts.

### Alternative Model for Predicting Soil Hydraulic Conductivity Over the Complete Moisture Range

Authors:
Wang, YQ; Jin, MG; Deng, ZJ

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (9):6860-6876; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Considering film flow in the development of a soil hydraulic model has
become a key method for improving model performance under dry
conditions. With the considerable improvement in model performance, the
trade-off is often to increase the model complexity, thus limiting a
model's application. In this paper, an alternative model is presented to
predict soil hydraulic conductivities over the entire moisture range. In
contrast to existing models that treat conductivity as a summation of
the capillary and film components, the proposed model applies a single
equation to capture the variation of the two conductivity components.
The new model, therefore, presents a simple form, with no extra
parameters added to the basic capillary models. Model testing with 24
soil data sets revealed that it was successful in predicting
conductivities over the complete moisture range. A comparison with
existing models demonstrated that the proposed model was generally in
higher agreement with observations, achieving a much lower mean value of
the root mean square errors for the predicted conductivities.


### An automatic variogram modeling method with high reliability fitness and estimates

Authors:
Li, ZL; Zhang, XL; Clarke, KC; Liu, G; Zhu, R

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 120 48-59; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Modeling of the variogram is a critical step for most geostatistical
methods. However, most of the prevalent variogram-based solutions are
designed without sufficient consideration of the effect of the
interpolation process on their application. This paper proposes an
automated variogram modeling framework, which simultaneously considers
the fit of the experimental variogram and interpolation accuracy in the
modeling variogram interpolation result. The variogram modeling
framework can be treated as a nonlinear optimization problem with two
sub-goals. The first is to optimize the goodness of fit between the
experimental and theoretical variogram values under the conditions of
their designated parameters. Second, we seek to optimize the difference
between measured values and the associated kriging estimates with the
candidate variogram model. A typical case study was chosen using a
public dataset to test the proposed method, which was implemented using
a genetic algorithm, and its performance was compared with the ones of
other commonly applied variogram modeling approaches. As expected, the
traditional variogram modeling method that only considers fitting
standard experimental variograms showed severe sensitivity to errors in
data and parameters; classical cross-validation modeling results tended
to overlook the experimental variograms. By contrast, the proposed
method succeeded in producing variogram models with robust, high-quality
kriging estimates and favorable fitness of experimental variograms in a
more powerful and flexible way.

### MARMIT: A multilayer radiative transfer model of soil reflectance to estimate surface soil moisture content in the solar domain (400-2500 nm)

Authors:
Bablet, A; Vu, PVH; Jacquemoud, S; Viallefont-Robinet, F; Fabre, S;
Briottet, X; Sadeghi, M; Whiting, ML; Baret, F; Tian, J

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 217 1-17; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Surface soil moisture content (SMC) is known to impact soil reflectance
at all wavelengths of the solar spectrum. As a consequence, many
semi-empirical methods aim at inferring SMC from soil reflectance, but
very few rely on physically-based models. This article presents a
multilayer radiative transfer model of soil reflectance called MARMIT
(multilayer radiative transfer model of soil reflectance) as a function
of SMC given on a mass basis and a method called MARMITforSMC to
estimate it from soil reflectance spectra. This model depicts a wet soil
as a dry soil covered with a thin film of water. It is used to assess
SMC over seven independent laboratory datasets gathered from the
literature. A learning phase is required to link the thickness of the
water film with the SMC. For that purpose, a sigmoid function, the
parameters of which are related to soil physical and chemical properties
such as porosity, grain size and mineralogy composition, is fitted. SMC
can be inferred with good accuracy (RMSE approximate to 3%) if the
learning step is applied soil by soil. The link between SMC and water
thickness actually depends on soil texture and chemical composition. If
the soils are divided into classes and if the learning phase is applied
to a class, the RMSE slightly increases up to 5%. Finally, MARMITforSMC
provides lower RMSE than any other existing semi-empirical or
physically-based method.


### A simple method to improve the quality of NDVI time-series data by integrating spatiotemporal information with the Savitzky-Golay filter

Authors:
Cao, RY; Chen, Y; Shen, MG; Chen, J; Zhou, J; Wang, C; Yang, W

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 217 244-257; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
High-quality Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) time-series
data are important for many regional and global ecological and
environmental applications. Unfortunately, residual noise in current
NDVI time-series products greatly hinders their further applications.
Several noise-reduction methods have been proposed during the past two
decades, but two important issues remain to be resolved. First, the
methods usually perform poorly for cases of continuous missing data in
the NDVI time series. Second, they generally assume negatively biased
noise in the NDVI time series and thus erroneously raise some local low
NDVI values in certain cases (e.g., the harvest period for multi-season
crops).We therefore developed a new noise-reduction algorithm called the
Spatial-Temporal Savitzky-Golay (STSG) method. The new method assumes
discontinuous clouds in space and employs neighboring pixels to assist
in the noise reduction of the target pixel in a particular year. The
relationship between the NDVI of neighboring pixels and that of the
target pixel was obtained from multi-year NDVI time series thanks to the
accumulation of NDVI data over many years, which would have been
impossible a decade ago. We tested STSG on 16-day composite MODIS NDVI
time-series data from 2001 to 2016 in regions of mainland China and 11
phenology camera sites in North American. The results showed that STSG
performed significantly better compared with four previous widely used
methods (i.e., the Asymmetric Gaussian, Double Logistic, Fourier-based,
and Savitzky-Golay filter methods). One obvious advantage was that STSG
was able to address the problem of temporally continuous NDVI gaps. STSG
effectively increased local low NDVI values and simultaneously avoided
overcorrecting low NDVI values during the crop harvest period. In
addition, implementing STSG required only raw MODIS NDVI time-series
products without any additional burden of data requirements. All of
these advantages make STSG a promising noise-reduction method for
generating high quality NDVI time-series data.


### The Chlorophyll Fluorescence Imaging Spectrometer (CFIS), mapping far red fluorescence from aircraft

Authors:
Frankenberg, C; Kohler, P; Magney, TS; Geier, S; Lawson, P; Schwochert,
M; McDuffie, J; Drewry, DT; Pavlick, R; Kuhnert, A

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 217 523-536; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
The Chlorophyll Fluorescence Imaging Spectrometer (CFIS) is an airborne
high resolution imaging spectrometer built at NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory (JPL) for evaluating solar-induced fluorescence (SIF) from
the Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2). OCO-2 is a NASA mission
designed to measure atmospheric CO2 but one of the novel data products
is SIF, retrieved using reductions in the optical depth of Fraunhofer
lines in OCO-2's O-2 Aband, covering 757-775 nm at 0.042 nm spectral
resolution. CFIS was specifically designed to retrieve SIF within the
wavelength range of OCO-2, but extends further down to 737 nm, nearly
maintaining the high spectral resolution of the OCO-2 instrument (0.07
vs. 0.042 nm). Here, we provide an overview of the instrument
calibration and performance as well as the retrieval strategy based on
non-linear weighted least-squares. To illustrate the retrieval
performance using actual flight data, we focus on data acquired over
agricultural fields in Mead, Nebraska from an unpressurized Twin Otter
(DHC-6) aircraft at a flight altitude of 3000 m above ground level
(AGL). Spectral residuals are consistent with expected detector noise,
which enables us to compute realistic 1-alpha precision errors of
0.5-0.7 W/m(2)/sr/mu m for typical SIF retrievals, which can be reduced
to < 0.2 W/m(2)/sr/mu m when individual data is gridded at 30 m spatial
resolution. The 30 m resolution also enabled direct comparison with the
Crop Data Layer from the National Agricultural Statistics Service as
well as Landsat imagery (NDVI, EVI, T-sk(in)), taken just a day prior to
the CFIS overflights. Results show consistently higher vegetation
indices and SIF values over soy fields compared to corn, likely due to
the respective phenological stage, which might already have affected
chlorophyll content and canopy structure (August 15, 2016). While this
work is intended to highlight the technical capabilities and performance
of CFIS, the comparisons against Landsat and crop types provide insights
into how CFIS can be used to study mechanisms related to photosynthesis
at fine spatial scales, with the fidelity needed to obtain un-biased SIF
retrievals void of atmospheric correction.

### Quantifying the uncertainty of soil colour measurements with Munsell charts using a modified attribute agreement analysis

Authors:
Marques-Mateu, A; Moreno-Ramon, H; Balasch, S; Ibanez-Asensio, S

Source:
*CATENA*, 171 44-53; DEC 2018 

Abstract:
The use of Munsell colour charts is the classical way of determining
colour information in soil science. The procedure is well-known and
consists of visually comparing soil samples with colour chips contained
in the charts. This visual approach has several drawbacks and although
the chart-based procedure is routinely used, it is not easy to find
systematic studies on the accuracy of this methodology. In this paper,
we seek to gain insight into the strengths and weaknesses of using soil
colour charts as a colour measurement device. The tool used to conduct
our study is a modification to the attribute agreement analysis (AAA)
method which consists of finding matches between colour standards and
colour designations obtained by several appraisers. In the experiment,
standards were obtained using a trichromatic colorimeter coupled to a
computer program that implements the k nearest neighbour (k-NN)
classification algorithm. In order to do the experiment, 276 soil
samples were observed twice by four trained appraisers (2208 data
records). The naive count of matches across all the records in the
dataset gave < 5% of agreement for all three colour components Hue,
Value and Chroma. The modified AAA criterion implemented in the study
gave a clear increase in all indicators with values ranging from 82.2%
to 100% in the agreement within appraisers, 39.5% in the agreement
between appraisers, and 42.8% in the agreement of appraisers vs.
standards. Results also show that users of the Munsell charts tend to
mostly report correct Hues but higher Values and Chromas than true soil
colours.

### Multi-decade, multi-sensor time-series modelling-based on geostatistical concepts-to predict broad groups of crops

Authors:
Pringle, MJ; Schmidt, M; Tindall, DR

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 216 183-200; OCT 2018 

Abstract:
We have mapped the broad groups of crops grown each summer and winter,
from 1987 to 2017, for a 300,000km 2 region of Queensland, Australia.
These maps are part of a legislated decision-making process for the
protection of prime agricultural land. For summer, the two groups of
crops are 'Coarse-grain & Pulse' and 'Cotton'. For winter, the two
groups of crops are 'Cereal' and 'Pulse'. Non-crop groups, present in
both summer and winter, are 'Bare soil' and 'Other' (comprising
pastures, woody vegetation, and crop residues). The foundation of the
maps is time-series modelling-specifically, applying the concepts of
geostatistics in the temporal domain-to model the variation in
land-surface phonology within a growing season. The time-series model is
flexible, robust, parsimonious, parallelisable, and able to deal with
irregular observations. We combined satellite imagery from the Landsat
sensors, as well as, when available, Sentinel-2A and MODIS (with the
last two reprojected to the 30m grid of Landsat). We applied the
time-series model pixel-wise across the study region, to three variables
derived from satellite imagery gathered for an individual growing
season: enhanced vegetation index, and the sub-pixel proportions of
bare-ground and non-photosynthetic vegetation. Weekly-averaged predicted
phenological metrics then served as explanatory variables in a tiered,
tree-based classification model, for the prediction of the groups. The
classification model comprised two expert rules and two random forests.
Prior to fitting the classification model, geospatial object-based image
analysis was used to change the scale of analysis from individual pixels
to (approximately) field-based segments. From the perspective of a
map-user, in any given growing season we predicted 'Coarse-grain &
Pulse' correctly in 79% of cases; the values for 'Cotton', 'Cereal', and
'Pulse' were 90%, 84%, and 73%, respectively; 'Bare soil' was 72% in
summer, and 88% in winter. 'Other' was the most accurately mapped group
(98% correct in summer, and 99% correct in winter).

### Pedotransfer functions for predicting available water capacity in French soils, their applicability domain and associated uncertainty

Authors:
Dobarco, MR; Cousin, I; Le Bas, C; Martin, MP

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 336 81-95; FEB 15 2019 

Abstract:
Soil available water capacity is an important soil property for land use
planning, drought risk assessment, and modelling crop production or
carbon cycling. Measurements of soil moisture at several soil water
potentials are expensive and time-consuming, hence it is common to
estimate available water capacity with pedotransfer functions (PTFs).
Available PTFs for France rarely provide uncertainty estimates for the
model coefficients and predictions, which are often required for error
propagation analysis and modelling ecological processes. The objectives
of this study were: 1) to develop class-PTFs and 2) continuous-PTFs with
associated uncertainties, and 3) to assess the domain of applicability
of the PTFs across metropolitan France. We used the SOLHYDRO database
for calibrating continuous and class PTFs. For continuous PTFs we used
linear regression models using sand, clay, organic carbon (SOC), and
bulk density (BD) as predictor variables, whereas class-PTFs were
defined by texture class, bulk density, and horizon type (all horizons,
topsoils, subsoils). The models were validated with an independent
validation dataset. The domain of applicability of the PTFs was
evaluated calculating the Mahalanobis distance between the calibration
dataset and horizon data from the French soil monitoring network (RMQS).
At independent validation, texture class-PTFs had a RMSE between 0.047
cm(3) cm(-3) and 0.058 cm(3) cm(-3) and continuous-PTFs had a RMSE
between 0.040 cm(3) cm(-3) and 0.053 cm(3) cm(-3). Texture class-PTFs
had similar or better predictive performance than texture-structural
class-PTFs. The prediction performance of continuous-PTFs improved
slightly when including SOC and BD in the models. The variance of the
predictions of continuous-PTFs associated to error in the model
coefficients was rather small, and increased as the values of the
predictor variables were more distant to the centroid of the calibration
data. We provide the PTF users with tools for classifying new samples as
within or outside the applicability domain of the PTFs. When applied to
the RMQS dataset, > 50% of the horizons outside the domain of
applicability were located in forests and natural areas or managed
pastures. The spatial distribution of RMQS horizons outside the domain
of applicability of the PTF can inform future sampling locations for
increasing the diversity of the soil properties and site conditions
represented by the SOLHYDRO dataset.

### Soil organic carbon storage as a key function of soils - A review of drivers and indicators at various scales

Authors:
Wiesmeier, M; Urbanski, L; Hobley, E; Lang, B; von Lutzow, M;
Marin-Spiotta, E; van Wesemael, B; Rabot, E; Liess, M; Garcia-Franco, N;
Wollschlager, U; Vogel, HJ; Kogel-Knabner, I

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 333 149-162; JAN 1 2019 

Abstract:
The capacity of soils to store organic carbon represents a key function
of soils that is not only decisive for climate regulation but also
affects other soil functions. Recent efforts to assess the impact of
land management on soil functionality proposed that an indicator- or
proxy-based approach is a promising alternative to quantify soil
functions compared to time- and cost-intensive measurements,
particularly when larger regions are targeted. The objective of this
review is to identify measurable biotic or abiotic properties that
control soil organic carbon (SOC) storage at different spatial scales
and could serve as indicators for an efficient quantification of SOC.
These indicators should enable both an estimation of actual SOC storage
as well as a prediction of the SOC storage potential, which is an
important aspect in land use and management planning. There are many
environmental conditions that affect SOC storage at different spatial
scales. We provide a thorough overview of factors from micro-scales
(particles to pedons) to the global scale and discuss their suitability
as indicators for SOC storage: clay mineralogy, specific surface area,
metal oxides, Ca and Mg cations, microorganisms, soil fauna,
aggregation, texture, soil type, natural vegetation, land use and
management, topography, parent material and climate. As a result, we
propose a set of indicators that allow for time- and cost-efficient
estimates of actual and potential SOC storage from the local to the
regional and subcontinental scale. As a key element, the fine mineral
fraction was identified to determine SOC stabilization in most soils.
The quantification of SOC can be further refined by including climatic
proxies, particularly elevation, as well as information on land use,
soil management and vegetation characteristics. To enhance its
indicative power towards land management effects, further "functional
soil characteristics", particularly soil structural properties and
changes in the soil microbial biomass pool should be included in this
indicator system. The proposed system offers the potential to
efficiently estimate the SOC storage capacity by means of simplified
measures, such as soil fractionation procedures or infrared
spectroscopic approaches.















