---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-07-26
modified: 2018-07-26
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #16

* Algorithm for post-clustering curation of DNA amplicon data yields reliable biodiversity estimates
* Ecosystem services provided by heavy metal-contaminated soils in China
* A family of (dis)similarity measures based on evenness and its relationship with beta diversity
* Assimilation of Spatially Sparse In Situ Soil Moisture Networks into a Continuous Model Domain
* A refined method for rapidly determining the relationship between canopy NDVI and the pasture evapotranspiration coefficient
* Discrimination of tea varieties using FTIR spectroscopy and allied Gustafson-Kessel clustering
* FORAGE - An online system for generating and delivering property-scale decision support information for grazing land and environmental management
* DeepDendro - A tree rings detector based on a deep convolutional neural network
* Evaluating pedotransfer functions of the Splintex model
* Forest species diversity mapping using airborne LiDAR and hyperspectral data in a subtropical forest in China
* Influence of species richness, evenness, and composition on optical diversity: A simulation study
* Australian wheat production expected to decrease by the late 21st century
* Exploring the case for a national-scale soil conservation and soil condition framework for evaluating and reporting on environmental and land use policies









<!--more-->

### Algorithm for post-clustering curation of DNA amplicon data yields reliable biodiversity estimates

Authors:
Froslev, TG; Kjoller, R; Bruun, HH; Ejrnaes, R; Brunbjerg, AK; Pietroni,
C; Hansen, AJ

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 1188-1188; OCT 30 2017 

Abstract:
DNA metabarcoding is promising for cost-effective biodiversity
monitoring, but reliable diversity estimates are difficult to achieve
and validate. Here we present and validate a method, called LULU, for
removing erroneous molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from
community data derived by high-throughput sequencing of amplified marker
genes. LULU identifies errors by combining sequence similarity and
co-occurrence patterns. To validate the LULU method, we use a unique
data set of high quality survey data of vascular plants paired with
plant ITS2 metabarcoding data of DNA extracted from soil from 130 sites
in Denmark spanning major environmental gradients. OTU tables are
produced with several different OTU definition algorithms and
subsequently curated with LULU, and validated against field survey data.
LULU curation consistently improves alpha-diversity estimates and other
biodiversity metrics, and does not require a sequence reference
database; thus, it represents a promising method for reliable
biodiversity estimation.

### Ecosystem services provided by heavy metal-contaminated soils in China

Authors:
Ding, KB; Wu, Q; Wei, H; Yang, WJ; Sere, G; Wang, SZ; Echevarria, G;
Tang, YT; Tao, J; Morel, JL; Qiu, RL

Source:
*JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS*, 18 (2):380-390; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Soils provide a variety of ecosystem services (ESs) that are crucial to
food security, water security, energy security, climate change
abatement, and biodiversity, especially in densely populated countries
such as China. At present, China is facing great challenges from serious
soil heavy metal (HM) contamination which has damaged soil ESs and soil
security. In this paper, we evaluate the ESs that contaminated soils can
potentially provide before and after remediation, and we explore the
connections between these ESs and the achievement of soil security in
China.After an introduction to the concepts of ESs and soil security and
a review of the current status of soil HM contamination in China, the
ESs that can potentially be provided by HM-contaminated soils are
discussed. Finally, we discuss the current remediation status of
HM-contaminated soils from the standpoint of optimizing the ability of
these soils to provide ESs.The status of the provision of ESs by
HM-contaminated soils of croplands, brownfields, and mining wastelands
is described in detail. Contaminated cropland soils fail to provide
provisioning (e.g., food production), cultural, and regulating services,
while the regulating and supporting services of brownfield soils are
greatly reduced. The ESs of mining wasteland soils have been severely
damaged, resulting in a high potential for contamination of surrounding
ecosystems. Recent soil remediation projects have demonstrated that the
damaged ESs of HM-contaminated soils can be restored, which would
enhance Chinese soil security. However, it has often been the case that
only visible ESs (e.g., food production and vegetation cover) are
addressed, while other less noticeable but important services (e.g.,
water quality and biodiversity) are neglected. Therefore, we propose a
framework for the evaluation of ESs provided by HM-contaminated
soils.The ESs that could potentially be provided by HM-contaminated
soils would help to achieve soil security in China, not only by
improving food security, water security, and energy security but also by
helping to protect soil biodiversity and abate global climate change.
The ESs provided by HM-contaminated soils should be taken into account
in soil policy and management systems as well as by the remediation
industry.

### A family of (dis)similarity measures based on evenness and its relationship with beta diversity

Authors:
Ricotta, C

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 34 69-73; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
In this paper, I propose a new evenness-based method for calculating
plot-to-plot (dis)similarity coefficients. The method is very flexible,
as (dis)similarity can be calculated for any kind of species abundance
data (also including functional or phylogenetic differences between
species), and can be easily generalized to multiple sites. To show how
the proposed method works in practice, the behavior of two similarity
coefficients based on Pielou's and Williams' evenness is examined with
simulated data representing an ideal ecological gradient. Being derived
from classical evenness indices, which have been used in ecology for
decades, this new family of measures has a great potential for future
research in community ecology and multivariate analysis.


### Assimilation of Spatially Sparse In Situ Soil Moisture Networks into a Continuous Model Domain

Authors:
Gruber, A; Crow, WT; Dorigo, WA

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (2):1353-1367; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Growth in the availability of near-real-time soil moisture observations
from ground-based networks has spurred interest in the assimilation of
these observations into land surface models via a two-dimensional data
assimilation system. However, the design of such systems is currently
hampered by our ignorance concerning the spatial structure of error
afflicting ground and model-based soil moisture estimates. Here we apply
newly developed triple collocation techniques to provide the spatial
error information required to fully parameterize a two-dimensional (2-D)
data assimilation system designed to assimilate spatially sparse
observations acquired from existing ground-based soil moisture networks
into a spatially continuous Antecedent Precipitation Index (API) model
for operational agricultural drought monitoring. Over the contiguous
United States (CONUS), the posterior uncertainty of surface soil
moisture estimates associated with this 2-D system is compared to that
obtained from the 1-D assimilation of remote sensing retrievals to
assess the value of ground-based observations to constrain a surface
soil moisture analysis. Results demonstrate that a fourfold increase in
existing CONUS ground station density is needed for ground network
observations to provide a level of skill comparable to that provided by
existing satellite-based surface soil moisture retrievals.

### A refined method for rapidly determining the relationship between canopy NDVI and the pasture evapotranspiration coefficient

Authors:
Alam, MS; Lamb, DW; Rahman, MM

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 147 12-17; APR 2018 

Abstract:
The estimation of actual crop evapotranspiration (ETc) from any given
land cover or crop type is important for irrigation water management and
agricultural water consumption analysis. The main parameter used for
such estimations is the crop coefficient (K-c). Spectral reflectance
indices, such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and
the crop coefficient of a specific crop or pasture canopy are important
indicators of 'vigour', namely the photosynthetic activity and rate of
biomass accumulation. Measuring both parameters simultaneously, with a
view to understanding how they interact, or for creating optical,
surrogate indicators of K-c is very difficult because K-c itself is
difficult to measure. In this study a portable enclosed chamber was used
to measure ET, of a pasture and subsequently calculated K-c from
reference evapotranspiration (ETc) data derived from a nearby automatic
weather station (AWS). Calibration of the chamber confirms the
suitability of the device to measure the amount of water vapour produced
by local plant evapotranspiration, producing a calibration factor (C)
close to 1 (C = 1.02, R-2 = 0.87). The coincident NDVI values were
measured using a portable active optical sensor. In a test involving a
pasture (Festuca arundinacea var. Dovey) at two different stages of
growth in two consecutive growing seasons, the NDVI and crop
coefficients were observed to be strongly correlated (R-2 = 0.80 and
0.77, respectively). A polynomial regression (R-2 = 0.84) was found to
be the best fit for the combined, multi-temporal KC-NDVI relationship.
The main advantages of this method include the suitability of operating
at a smaller scale (< 1 m(2)), in real time and repeatability.

### Discrimination of tea varieties using FTIR spectroscopy and allied Gustafson-Kessel clustering

Authors:
Wu, XH; Zhu, J; Wu, B; Sun, J; Dai, CX

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 147 64-69; APR 2018 

Abstract:
For the purpose of classifying tea varieties, allied Gustafson-Kessel
(AGK) clustering was proposed to cluster the Fourier transform infrared
reflectance (FTIR) spectra of tea samples. As a fuzzy clustering
algorithm, AGK can not only produce fuzzy membership and typicality
values but also cluster various shapes of data with the help of
Gustafson-Kessel (GK) clustering. After FTIR spectra were collected by
FTIR-7600 infrared spectrometer, they were preprocessed with multiple
scatter correction (MSC). To reduce the dimensionality of FTIR spectra
and make the classification of data easily, principal component analysis
(PCA) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA) were used to process the
FTIR spectra. After that, fuzzy c-means (FCM) clustering, possibilistic
c-means (PCM) clustering, AGK clustering and allied fuzzy c-means (AFCM)
clustering were performed to cluster data, respectively. The clustering
accuracy of AGK achieved 93.9% which was the highest one than other
fuzzy clustering algorithms. The results obtained in experiments showed
that AGK coupled with FTIR spectroscopy could provide an effective
discrimination model for classification of tea varieties successfully.


### FORAGE - An online system for generating and delivering property-scale decision support information for grazing land and environmental management

Authors:
Zhang, BS; Carter, J

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 150 302-311; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
Queensland grazing industries operate in one of the world's most
variable climates and face enormous challenges to achieve profitability
and sustainability. To assist grazing enterprises, the Queensland
Government has developed an operational online information system -
FORAGE, to facilitate best management practice for grazing land. The
FORAGE system provides land managers with property-scale information
relating to rainfall, ground cover, soil erodibility, land types, tree
density, seasonal climate outlooks and pasture growth simulated using
the GRASP grazing system model. This information is site-specific and
tailored to facilitate on-ground management decisions common to
Queensland grazing enterprises. The FORAGE system makes complex
remotely-sensed data, information from a range of databases and pasture
growth models more accessible and relevant to land managers. This paper
describes the structure, resources (e.g. software, databases and
models), information generating processes, delivery mechanisms and
information products of the FORAGE system.


### DeepDendro - A tree rings detector based on a deep convolutional neural network

Authors:
Fabijanska, A; Danek, M

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 150 353-363; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
Tree-ring analysis is widely used in many different fields of science.
Among others, information carried by annual tree rings allows
determining the rates of environmental changes and the timing of events.
The analysis of the tree rings requires prior detection of tree-ring
boundaries which is traditionally performed manually with the use of
stereoscope, a moving table, and a data recorder. This is, however,
time-consuming and very cumbersome, especially in the case of long
tree-ring series. Several approaches to an automatic detection of
tree-ring boundaries exist; however, they use basic image processing
techniques. As a result, their accuracy is limited, and their
application is restricted mainly to conifer wood where the tree-ring
boundaries are clearly defined. There also exists some commercial
software, however, none of them is perfect as they fail when applied to
the ring-porous wood type. Therefore this paper proposes a DeepDendro
approach i.e., an automatic tree-ring boundary detector built upon the
U-Net convolutional network. To the authors' best knowledge this is the
first study which applies ConvNets for an automatic detection of tree
rings. The performance of the existing approach was tested on the
dataset of images of wood cores of three species that represent the
ring-porous type of the anatomical structure (Quercus sp., Fraxinus
excelsior L., and Ulmus sp.). The testing dataset contained over 2500 of
tree-ring boundaries, 96% of which were determined correctly by the
proposed method. The corresponding precision is at the level of 0.97
which confirms that only a few false boundaries were introduced by the
DeepDendro approach. The results were obtained automatically without any
user interaction.

### Evaluating pedotransfer functions of the Splintex model

Authors:
Dos Reis, AMH; Armindo, RA; Duraes, MF; Van Lier, QD

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (4):685-697; JUL 2018 

Abstract:
The soil water retention curve (SWRC) is an essential hydraulic function
for the understanding and modelling of soil hydraulic processes. Its
direct determination is time consuming and sometimes expensive because
it requires extensive sampling, especially when spatial and temporal
variation of soil hydraulic properties are an issue. The use of
pedotransfer functions (PTFs) is a viable alternative to predict the
parameters of SWRC from more easily determined soil attributes. Splintex
is a physically based engineering model containing two PTFs to estimate
SWRC parameters and saturated hydraulic conductivity, but its
performance and functionality have not yet been fully evaluated and
disseminated for soil science. We examined the functionality of the PTFs
available in Splintex to estimate parameters of the Van Genuchten-Mualem
(VGM) SWRC equation with a laboratory-measured dataset containing
information on particle size, bulk and particle density, saturated water
content and parameters of the SWRCs. In addition, we tested the
performance of both PTFs for deriving some soil physical-structural
variables calculated from estimated SWRC parameters. Compared with VGM
parameters fitted to the laboratory dataset, the model performed well.
Its predictive performance for soil air capacity, relative field
capacity and soil physical-structural quality indices was also
evaluated. The performance of Splintex for estimating the VGM parameters
depended on the combined effect of all input variables rather than on
isolated correlations between an input variable and a model parameter.

### Forest species diversity mapping using airborne LiDAR and hyperspectral data in a subtropical forest in China

Authors:
Zhao, YJ; Zeng, Y; Zheng, ZJ; Dong, WX; Zhao, D; Wu, BF; Zhao, QJ

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 213 104-114; AUG 2018 

Abstract:
Monitoring biodiversity is essential for the conservation and management
of forest resources. A method called "spectranomics" that maps the
diversity of forest species based on species-driven leaf optical traits
using imaging spectroscopy has been developed for tropical forests in
earlier studies. In this study we applied the "spectranomics" method in
combination with airborne hyperspectral (PHI-3 sensor with 1 m spatial
resolution) and LiDAR ( > 4 points/m(2)) data to first identify
interspecies variations in biochemical and structural properties of
trees and then estimate the tree species diversity within the
Shennongjia Forest Nature Reserve in China. Firstly, we used the
watershed algorithm based on morphological crown control to isolate
individual tree crowns (ITCs) from the LiDAR data. For each ITC, we then
calculated seven vegetation indices (VIs) representing key biochemical
properties from the hyperspectral data and additionally derived the
LiDAR-based tree height which was identified to support the
discrimination of the tree species in a preceding analysis. Finally we
utilized the combination of the seven selected VIs and tree height as
input to a self-adaptive Fuzzy C-Means (FCM) clustering algorithm. The
FCM algorithm was applied to fixed subsets of 30 m x 30 m and it was
assumed that the number of clusters identified within a subset
represents the number of occurring species. The species richness and
Shannon-Wiener diversity index calculated from the clustering outputs
correlated well with the field reference data (R-2 = 0.83, RMSE = 0.25).
The results show that forest species diversity can be directly predicted
using the suggested clustering method based on crown-by-crown variations
in biochemical and structural properties in the examined subtropical
forest without the need to distinguish the individual tree species.

### Influence of species richness, evenness, and composition on optical diversity: A simulation study

Authors:
Wang, R; Gamon, JA; Schweiger, AK; Cavender-Bares, J; Townsend, PA;
Zygielbaum, AI; Kothari, S

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 211 218-228; JUN 15 2018 

Abstract:
While remote sensing has increasingly been applied to estimate a
biodiversity directly through optical diversity, there is a need to
better understand the mechanisms behind the optical
diversity-biodiversity relationship. Here, we examined the relative
contributions of species richness, evenness, and composition to the
spectral reflectance, and consider factors confounding the remote
estimation of species diversity in a prairie ecosystem experiment at
Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science Reserve, Minnesota. We collected
hyperspectral reflectance of 16 prairie species using a tram-mounted
imaging spectrometer, and a full-range field spectrometer with a leaf
clip, and simulated plot-level images from both instruments with
different species richness, evenness and composition. Two optical
diversity metrics were explored: the coefficient of variation (CV) of
spectral reflectance in space and classified species derived from
Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA), a spectral
classification method. Both optical diversity metrics (CV and PLS-DA
classified species) were affected by species richness and evenness.
Diversity metrics that combined species richness and evenness together
(e.g. Shannon's index) were more strongly correlated with optical
diversity than either metric alone. Image-derived data were influenced
by both leaf traits and canopy structure and showed larger spectral
variability than leaf clip data, indicating that sampling methods
influence optical diversity. Leaf and canopy traits both contributed to
optical diversity, sometimes in complex or contradictory ways. Large
within-species variation sometimes confounded biodiversity estimation
from optical diversity, and a single species markedly altered the
optical-biodiversity relationship. Biodiversity estimation from CV was
strongly influenced by soil background, while estimation from PLS-DA
classified species was not sensitive to soil background. These findings
are consistent with recent empirical studies and demonstrate that
modeling approaches can be used to explore effects of spatial scale and
guide regional studies of biodiversity estimation using high spatial and
spectral resolution remote sensing.

### Australian wheat production expected to decrease by the late 21st century

Authors:
Wang, B; Liu, D; O'Leary, GJ; Asseng, S; Macadam, I; Lines-Kelly, R;
Yang, XH; Clark, A; Crean, J; Sides, T; Xing, HT; Mi, CR; Yu, Q

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (6):2403-2415; JUN 2018 

Abstract:
Climate change threatens global wheat production and food security,
including the wheat industry in Australia. Many studies have examined
the impacts of changes in local climate on wheat yield per hectare, but
there has been no assessment of changes in land area available for
production due to changing climate. It is also unclear how total wheat
production would change under future climate when autonomous adaptation
options are adopted. We applied species distribution models to
investigate future changes in areas climatically suitable for growing
wheat in Australia. A crop model was used to assess wheat yield per
hectare in these areas. Our results show that there is an overall
tendency for a decrease in the areas suitable for growing wheat and a
decline in the yield of the northeast Australian wheat belt. This
results in reduced national wheat production although future climate
change may benefit South Australia and Victoria. These projected
outcomes infer that similar wheat-growing regions of the globe might
also experience decreases in wheat production. Some cropping adaptation
measures increase wheat yield per hectare and provide significant
mitigation of the negative effects of climate change on national wheat
production by 2041-2060. However, any positive effects will be
insufficient to prevent a likely decline in production under a high CO2
emission scenario by 2081-2100 due to increasing losses in suitable
wheat-growing areas. Therefore, additional adaptation strategies along
with investment in wheat production are needed to maintain Australian
agricultural production and enhance global food security. This scenario
analysis provides a foundation towards understanding changes in
Australia's wheat cropping systems, which will assist in developing
adaptation strategies to mitigate climate change impacts on global wheat
production.

### Exploring the case for a national-scale soil conservation and soil condition framework for evaluating and reporting on environmental and land use policies

Authors:
Humphries, RN; Brazier, RE

Source:
*SOIL USE AND MANAGEMENT*, 34 (1):134-146; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
It has long been realized that the conservation of soil capital and
ecosystem services are of paramount importance, resulting in a growing
case for a change in attitude and policymaking in respect of soils.
Current UK and EU approaches are risk-based and focused on measures to
manage and remediate the adverse impact of current policies and
practices directed at maximizing productivity and profit, rather than
one of resource conservation. Increasing soil loss and degradation is
evidence that current policy is not working and a new approach is
needed. In the UK there is governmental ambition to progress towards
natural capital-led land use policies but, in the absence of a framework
to determine the relative condition of the soil resource, the delivery
of sustainable soil conservation policies will continue to be inhibited.
Common Standards Monitoring (CSM) is an established monitoring and
management framework (based on ecosystem structure, function and
process) and has been effectively deployed for almost two decades by the
UK Government for the monitoring and reporting of key biological and
earth science natural capital and ecosystem services from field' to
local, regional and national levels to the European Commission. It is
argued that a CSM for soils could be developed for the UK's soil
resources as well as for those elsewhere, and would be able to deliver a
conservation rather than the current risk-based approach. It is capable
of accommodating the complexities and variation in soil types and
functions and potentially being practical and cost-effective in its
implementation.













