---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-08-24
modified: 2018-08-24
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #18

* Downscaling of SMAP Soil Moisture Using Land Surface Temperature and Vegetation Data
* A SPECLib-based operational classification approach: A preliminary test on China land cover mapping at 30 m
* Spatial structuring of soil microbial communities in commercial apple orchards










<!--more-->

### Downscaling of SMAP Soil Moisture Using Land Surface Temperature and Vegetation Data

Authors:
Fang, B; Lakshmi, V; Bindlish, R; Jackson, TJ

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 17 (1):70198-70198; AUG 9 2018 

Abstract:
Remotely sensed soil moisture retrieved by the Soil Moisture Active and
Passive (SMAP) sensor is currently provided at a 9-km grid resolution.
Although valuable, some applications in weather, agriculture, ecology,
and watershed hydrology require soil moisture at a higher spatial
resolution. In this study, a passive microwave soil moisture downscaling
algorithm based on thermal inertia theory was improved for use with SMAP
and applied to a data set collected at a field experiment. This
algorithm utilizes a normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI)
modulated relationship between daytime soil moisture and daily
temperature change modeled using output variables from the land surface
model of the North American Land Data Assimilation System (NLDAS) and
remote sensing data from the Moderate-Resolution Imaging
Spectroradiometer (MODIS) and Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer
(AVHRR). The reference component of the algorithm was developed at the
NLDAS grid size (12.5 km) to downscale the SMAP Level 3 radiometer-based
9-km soil moisture to 1 km. The downscaled results were validated using
data acquired in Soil Moisture Active Passive Validation Experiment 2015
(SMAPVEX15) that included in situ soil moisture and Passive Active
L-band System (PALS) airborne instrument observations. The resulting
downscaled SMAP estimates better characterize soil moisture spatial and
temporal variability and have better overall validation metrics than the
original SMAP soil moisture estimates. Additionally, the overall
accuracy of the downscaled SMAP soil moisture is comparable to the PALS
high spatial resolution soil moisture retrievals. The method
demonstrated in this study downscales satellite soil moisture to produce
a 1-km product that is not site specific and could be applied to other
regions of the world using the publicly available NLDAS/Global Land Data
Assimilation System data.

### A SPECLib-based operational classification approach: A preliminary test on China land cover mapping at 30 m

Authors:
Zhang, X; Liu, LY; Wang, YJ; Hu, Y; Zhang, B

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 71 83-94; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Fine-resolution land cover mapping at the regional or global scale is
usually time-consuming and involves a lot of manual participation. This
article proposes a novel and automatic land cover mapping approach
called the SPatial-tEmporal speCtral Library (SPECLib), which can
produce a land cover map with a 30-m spatial resolution. First, the
SPECLib is developed by extracting reference spectra for uniform,
typical samples of each land cover type by combining the GlobCover2009
land cover product and the 8-day composite MODIS Surface Reflectance
Product (MODO9 A1). SPECLib has a temporal resolution of 8 days and
contains most of the land cover types in each 1.5 degrees x 1.5 degrees
geographic cell. For an arbitrary temporal stage, for each geographical
cell of the SPECLib, there are a total of about 5000 MODIS spectra.
Secondly, an operational approach for automatic land cover mapping using
Landsat data is developed based on SPECLib. For each Landsat scene to be
classified, the reference spectra of the land cover types in the
corresponding geographic cell were automatically extracted and
normalized. The Landsat scene was then classified by using the
normalized reference spectra from SPECLib in an integrated
classification approach that combined MLC (Maximum Likelihood
Classification) and SAM (Spectral Angle Mapper). Finally, the
SPECLib-based approach is tested using 510 single-date Landsat 8 OLI
scenes to produce a land cover map of China. The map was validated using
11,366 interpretation samples and was shown to have an overall accuracy
of 77.34% and a kappa coefficient of 0.729. Therefore, the preliminary
results indicate that the SPECLib-based operational classification
approach is a promisingly automatic method for global land cover mapping
at a resolution of 30 m.

### Spatial structuring of soil microbial communities in commercial apple orchards

Authors:
Deakin, G; Tilston, EL; Bennett, J; Passey, T; Harrison, N;
Fernandez-Fernandez, F; Xu, XM

Source:
*APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY*, 130 1-12; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Characterising spatial microbial community structure is important to
understand and explain the consequences of continuous plantation of one
crop species on the performance of subsequent crops, especially where
this leads to reduced growth vigour and crop yield. We investigated the
spatial structure, specifically distance-decay of similarity, of soil
bacterial and fungal communities in two long-established orchards with
contrasting agronomic characteristics. A spatially explicit sampling
strategy was used to collect soil from under recently grubbed rows of
apple trees and under the grassed aisles. Amplicon-based metabarcoding
technology was used to characterise the soil microbial communities. The
results suggested that (1) most of the differences in soil microbial
community structure were due to large-scale differences (i.e. between
orchards), (2) within-orchard, small-scale (1-5 m) spatial variability
was also present, but spatial relationships in microbial community
structure differed between orchards and were not predictable, and (3)
vegetation type (i.e. trees or grass and their associated management)
can significantly alter the structure of soil microbial communities,
affecting a large proportion of microbial groups. The discontinuous
nature of soil microbial community structure in the tree stations and
neighbouring grass aisles within an orchard illustrate the importance of
vegetation type and allied weed and nutrient management on soil
microbial community structure.