---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-01-22
modified: 2018-01-22
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #1

* Multi-ecosystem services networks: A new perspective for assessing landscape connectivity and resilience
* Circumventing structural uncertainty: A Bayesian perspective on nonlinear forecasting for ecology
* Model updating for the classification of different varieties of maize seeds from different years by hyperspectral imaging coupled with a pre-labeling method
* Crowdsourcing for agricultural applications: A review of uses and opportunities for a farmsourcing approach
* Estimating surface soil moisture from SMAP observations using a Neural Network technique
* The Centenary of the Journal Soil Science: Reflections on the Discipline in the United States and Russia Around a Hundred Years Ago
* Measurement of Soil Color: A Comparison Between Smartphone Camera and the Munsell Color Charts
* Alive and kicking: Why dormant soil microorganisms matter



























<!--more-->

### Multi-ecosystem services networks: A new perspective for assessing landscape connectivity and resilience

Authors:
Field, RD; Parrott, L

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 32 31-41; A DEC 2017 

Abstract:
The sustainability of natural systems is dependent on ecosystem services
(ES), the delivery of which would cease without strong connectivity
among the ecological processes underlying their production. However,
research on the connectivity between multiple ES is in its infancy.
Preliminary studies have focused on the flows of individual ES, but
research has yet to expand to incorporating the interactions and
feedbacks that occur between several different types of ES, and how such
complex relationships might influence landscape sustainability. Our
objective is to present a viewpoint on how spatial network theory can be
used to assess connectivity between multiple ES and landscape ecological
resilience. We provide an overview of knowledge and gaps in the
literature linking connectivity, networks and ES concepts. We propose a
spatial network theory-based approach for the assessment of multi-ES
interactions and flows, and present how ecological process flows can be
used to develop spatially explicit network nodes and links between
multiple ES across landscapes. To illustrate our proposed approach, we
provide a design framework and assessment of a simple conceptual
multi-ES network. The use of multi-ES networks can help evolve our
understanding of landscape connectivity and resilience, and incorporate
complex ES relationships into applied planning and management programs.


### Circumventing structural uncertainty: A Bayesian perspective on nonlinear forecasting for ecology

Authors:
Munch, SB; Poynor, V; Arriaza, JL

Source:
*ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY*, 32 134-143; SI B DEC 2017 

Abstract:
As a consequence of the complexity of ecosystems and context-dependence
of species interactions, structural uncertainty is pervasive in
ecological modeling. This is particularly problematic when ecological
models are used to make conservation and management plans whose outcomes
may depend strongly on model formulation. Nonlinear time series
approaches allow us to circumvent this issue by using the observed
dynamics of the system to guide policy development. However, these
methods typically require long time series from stationary systems,
which are rarely available in ecological settings. Here we present a
Bayesian approach to nonlinear forecasting based on Gaussian processes
that readily integrates information from several short time series and
allows for nonstationary dynamics. We demonstrate the utility of our
modeling methods on simulated from a wide range of ecological scenarios.
We expect that these models will extend the range of ecological systems
to which nonlinear forecasting methods can be usefully applied.


### Model updating for the classification of different varieties of maize seeds from different years by hyperspectral imaging coupled with a pre-labeling method

Authors:
Guo, DS; Zhu, QB; Huang, M; Guo, Y; Qin, JW

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 142 1-8; A NOV 2017 

Abstract:
The use of hyperspectral imaging technology combined with chemometrics
is an effective nondestructive method for sorting seed varieties.
However, the performance of the method is susceptible to the influence
of time and depends on the training set used in the modeling process.
The accuracy of classification models maybe deteriorate when they are
used to differentiate the same variety of seeds harvested in different
years, due to new variances in the test set are introduced by changes in
the cultivation conditions, soil environmental conditions and climatic
changes from one year to another. To maintain the accuracy and
robustness of model, a model-updating algorithm for differentiating
maize seed varieties from different years based on hyperspectral imaging
coupled with a pre-labeling method was proposed in this work. The
pre-label of each unlabeled sample was obtained using the original
classification models developed by the least squares support vector
machine classifier. The representative unlabeled samples, which had
reliable pre-labels, were selected for updating classification models
based on Pearson correlation coefficients. After model updating, the
average classification accuracies were improved by 8.9%, 35.8% and 9.6%,
compared with those of non-updated models for three test sets,
respectively. This shows the effectiveness of the proposed method for
classifying maize seeds of different years

### Crowdsourcing for agricultural applications: A review of uses and opportunities for a farmsourcing approach

Authors:
Minet, J; Curnel, Y; Gobin, A; Goffart, JP; Melard, F; Tychon, B;
Wellens, J; Defourny, P

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 142 126-138; A NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Crowdsourcing, understood as outsourcing tasks or data collection by a
large group of non-professionals, is increasingly used in scientific
research and operational applications. In this paper, we reviewed
crowdsourcing initiatives in agricultural science and farming activities
and further discussed the particular characteristics of this approach in
the field of agriculture. On-going crowdsourcing initiatives in
agriculture were analysed and categorised according to their
crowdsourcing component. We identified eight types of agricultural data
and information that can be generated from crowdsourcing initiatives.
Subsequently we described existing methods of quality control of the
crowdsourced data. We analysed the profiles of potential contributors in
crowdsourcing initiatives in agriculture, suggested ways for increasing
farmers' participation, and discussed the on-going initiatives in the
light of their target beneficiaries. While crowdsourcing is reported to
be an efficient way of collecting observations relevant to environmental
monitoring and contributing to science in general, we pointed out that
crowdsourcing applications in agriculture may be hampered by privacy
issues and other barriers to participation. Close connections with the
farming sector, including extension services and farm advisory
companies, could leverage the potential of crowdsourcing for both
agricultural research and farming applications. This paper coins the
term of farmsourcing as a professional crowdsourcing strategy in farming
activities and provides a source of recommendations and inspirations for
future collaborative actions in agricultural crowdsourcing.


### Estimating surface soil moisture from SMAP observations using a Neural Network technique

Authors:
Kolassa, J; Reichle, RH; Liu, Q; Alemohammad, SH; Gentine, P; Aida, K;
Asanuma, J; Bircher, S; Caldwell, T; Colliander, A; Cosh, M; Collins,
CH; Jackson, TJ; Martinez-Fernandez, J; McNairn, H; Pacheco, A;
Thibeault, M; Walker, JP

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 204 43-59; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
A Neural Network (NN) algorithm was developed to estimate global surface
soil moisture for April 2015 to March 2017 with a 2-3 day repeat
frequency using passive microwave observations from the Soil Moisture
Active Passive (SMAP) satellite, surface soil temperatures from the NASA
Goddard Earth Observing System Model version 5 (GEOS-5) land modeling
system, and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer-based
vegetation water content. The NN was trained on GEOS-5 soil moisture
target data, making the NN estimates consistent with the GEOS-5
climatology, such that they may ultimately be assimilated into this
model without further bias correction. Evaluated against in situ soil
moisture measurements, the average unbiased root mean square error
(ubRMSE), correlation and anomaly correlation of the NN retrievals were
0.037 m(3)m(-3), 0.70 and 0.66, respectively, against SMAP core
validation site measurements and 0.026 m(3)m(-3), 0.58 and 0.48,
respectively, against International Soil Moisture Network (ISMN)
measurements. At the core validation sites, the NN retrievals have a
significantly higher skill than the GEOS-5 model estimates and a
slightly lower correlation skill than the SMAP Level-2 Passive (L2P)
product. The feasibility of the NN method was reflected by a lower
ubRMSE compared to the L2P retrievals as well as a higher skill when
ancillary parameters in physically-based retrievals were uncertain.
Against ISMN measurements, the skill of the two retrieval products was
more comparable. A triple collocation analysis against Advanced
Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2) and Advanced Scatterometer
(ASCAT) soil moisture retrievals showed that the NN and L2P retrieval
errors have a similar spatial distribution, but the NN retrieval errors
are generally lower in densely vegetated regions and transition zones.

### The Centenary of the Journal Soil Science: Reflections on the Discipline in the United States and Russia Around a Hundred Years Ago

Authors:
Moon, D; Landa, ER

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE*, 182 (6):203-215; JUN 2017 

Abstract:
Soil Science emerged on the scene in January 1916 as a journal focused
on soil fertility and allied fields. Its founding editor and guiding
force for 23 years was Jacob Goodale Lipman, an immigrant from the
Russian Empire who came to the United States in his teens and received
all of his scientific training in the United States, at Rutgers and
Cornell Universities. His knowledge of the Russian language and culture,
rather than a preexisting professional network, however, enabled him to
serve as an important bridge to the Russian soil science community. As
well as facilitating communication between soil scientists in the United
States and the Russian Empire (and, after 1917, its successor state, the
Soviet Union), Lipman also found support for young scientists from
abroad to come to work at Rutgers. The most prominent was another
migrant from the Russian Empire who went on to win a Nobel Prize, Selman
A. Waksman. Lipman, who had an enormous capacity for work, also
organized the first International Congress of Soil Science in
Washington, DC, in 1927, which was followed by a remarkable
transcontinental excursion. These events allowed many American and
international, including Soviet, soil scientists to meet. However, the
journal that he guided from its foundation in 1916 provided a
longer-term vehicle for international intellectual exchange before and
after 1927.

### Measurement of Soil Color: A Comparison Between Smartphone Camera and the Munsell Color Charts

Authors:
Fan, ZS; Herrick, JE; Saltzman, R; Matteis, C; Yudina, A; Nocella, N;
Crawford, E; Parker, R; Van Zee, J

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (5):1139-1146; SEP-OCT 2017 

Abstract:
Soil color is one of the most useful soil properties for assessing and
monitoring soil health. Here we present results of tests of a new soil
color app for mobile phones. Various smartphone cameras (SPCs) were
tested under sunny and cloudy conditions and compared with visual
estimates using Munsell color charts (MCCs). The measured and estimated
soil colors were then compared with the "true" colors determined using a
spectrophotometer. The results indicated that soil color determinations
based on SPC measurements under both sunny and cloudy conditions were as
good as those obtained using the MCCs. The accuracy of the SPC
measurements was affected by the natural illumination conditions, with
higher accuracy in the sun than where clouds were present. Our results
also indicated that the SPC measurements completed in the sun provide
higher precision (lower variance) than SPC measurements completed under
cloudy conditions or estimates based on MCCs. These results suggest that
mobile-device cameras have great potential to allow non-soil scientists,
and others lacking access to color charts, to determine soil color.


### Alive and kicking: Why dormant soil microorganisms matter

Authors:
Joergensen, RG; Wichern, F

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 116 419-430; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
The current review investigates the hypothesis that dormant soil
microorganisms are relevant for microbial processes and community
changes. Dormant soil microorganisms are C limited and do not grow.
However, they still have a basic metabolism, which requires organic C
uptake, resulting in a slow biomass turnover. Dormant soil
microorganisms respond to substrate limitation by recycling own cell
components and by down-regulating enzyme-expressing genes. The
adsorption of microbial cells to clay and soil organic matter,
intensified by limited water availability under unsaturated conditions,
reduces microbial requirements for maintenance energy but causes
immobility. For this reason, soil microorganisms cannot move rapidly
towards places of demand for a certain microbial ability. Consequently,
it can be assumed that subsoils and deeper vadose zone sediments must
have been predominantly colonized by microorganisms during periods near
to the surface, with access to autotrophic C inputs. Being remote from
hotspots of C input, dormant microorganisms are an important reservoir
of biodiversity and potential activity if an organic substrate arrives.
The turnover of the whole microbial biomass C (MBC) is the product of C
use efficiency (CUE) and a maintenance coefficient. For complex
osmotrophic soil microbial communities, the CUE accounts for all biomass
and metabolites synthesized during growth, i.e. especially exo-enzymes
but also extracellular polymeric substances. This results in a mean CUE
of 0.59 for easily soluble glucose and sucrose components and a mean CUE
of 0.45 for more complex organic polymers such as cellulose, straw and
MBC. The annual C input limits the MBC turnover time, which varies
roughly around 365 days, assuming a CUE of 0.4 for soil organic matter.







