---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-07-11
modified: 2018-07-11
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #14

* An algorithm for selecting groups of factors for prioritization of land consolidation in rural areas
* Influence of species richness, evenness, and composition on optical diversity: A simulation study
* Retrieving surface soil moisture at high spatio-temporal resolution from a synergy between Sentinel-1 radar and Landsat thermal data: A study case over bare soil
* Mapping soil moisture with the OPtical TRApezoid Model (OPTRAM) based on long-term MODIS observations.
* Spatial point pattern analysis of piping erosion in loess-derived soils in Golestan Province, Iran
* Geostatistical analysis of pedodiversity in Taihang Mountain region in North China
* Carbon input by roots into the soil: Quantification of rhizodeposition from root to ecosystem scale
* Analysis of climate signals in the crop yield record of sub-Saharan Africa

<!--more-->

### An algorithm for selecting groups of factors for prioritization of land consolidation in rural areas

Authors:
Len, P

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 144 216-221; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Large defects in the spatial structure of agricultural land are an issue
in many countries. The main cause of these defects are hundreds of years
of social, economic and historical transformations. The spatial
structure of farmland can be improved using procedures such as land
consolidation and exchange. However, given the fact that the funds for
these activities are limited, it is necessary to select those areas in
which land consolidation and exchange are a priority. To develop a
prioritization plan for land consolidation and exchange interventions,
it is necessary to carry out a series of studies and analyses which will
provide a set of factors characterizing the region under investigation.
Many years of research have shown that different regions in Poland are
characterized by different parameters.Therefore, in the present study,
an attempt was made to develop a universal algorithm for selecting
groups of factors for purposes of prioritization of land consolidation
which takes into account the geographic location of an investigated
area. To test the proposed algorithm, analyses were carried out in two
communes located in central and south-eastern Poland which differed
significantly in terms of the spatial structure of farm holdings. A
first test object was the commune of Paradyz, occupying an area of
8125.73 ha and divided into 15,941 cadastral plots. A second test object
was the commune of Frysztak, located in south-eastern Poland, with an
area of 9066.86 ha, divided into 21,506 cadastral plots.

### Influence of species richness, evenness, and composition on optical diversity: A simulation study

Authors:
Wang, R; Gamon, JA; Schweiger, AK; Cavender-Bares, J; Townsend, PA;
Zygielbaum, AI; Kothari, S

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 211 218-228; JUN 15 2018 

Abstract:
While remote sensing has increasingly been applied to estimate a
biodiversity directly through optical diversity, there is a need to
better understand the mechanisms behind the optical
diversity-biodiversity relationship. Here, we examined the relative
contributions of species richness, evenness, and composition to the
spectral reflectance, and consider factors confounding the remote
estimation of species diversity in a prairie ecosystem experiment at
Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science Reserve, Minnesota. We collected
hyperspectral reflectance of 16 prairie species using a tram-mounted
imaging spectrometer, and a full-range field spectrometer with a leaf
clip, and simulated plot-level images from both instruments with
different species richness, evenness and composition. Two optical
diversity metrics were explored: the coefficient of variation (CV) of
spectral reflectance in space and classified species derived from
Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA), a spectral
classification method. Both optical diversity metrics (CV and PLS-DA
classified species) were affected by species richness and evenness.
Diversity metrics that combined species richness and evenness together
(e.g. Shannon's index) were more strongly correlated with optical
diversity than either metric alone. Image-derived data were influenced
by both leaf traits and canopy structure and showed larger spectral
variability than leaf clip data, indicating that sampling methods
influence optical diversity. Leaf and canopy traits both contributed to
optical diversity, sometimes in complex or contradictory ways. Large
within-species variation sometimes confounded biodiversity estimation
from optical diversity, and a single species markedly altered the
optical-biodiversity relationship. Biodiversity estimation from CV was
strongly influenced by soil background, while estimation from PLS-DA
classified species was not sensitive to soil background. These findings
are consistent with recent empirical studies and demonstrate that
modeling approaches can be used to explore effects of spatial scale and
guide regional studies of biodiversity estimation using high spatial and
spectral resolution remote sensing.


### Retrieving surface soil moisture at high spatio-temporal resolution from a synergy between Sentinel-1 radar and Landsat thermal data: A study case over bare soil

Authors:
Amazirh, A; Merlin, O; Er-Raki, S; Gao, Q; Rivalland, V; Malbeteau, Y;
Khabba, S; Escorihuela, MJ

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 211 321-337; JUN 15 2018 

Abstract:
Radar data have been used to retrieve and monitor the surface soil
moisture (SM) changes in various conditions. However, the calibration of
radar models whether empirically or physically-based, is still subject
to large uncertainties especially at high-spatial resolution. To help
calibrate radar-based retrieval approaches to supervising SM at high
resolution, this paper presents an innovative synergistic method
combining Sentinel-1 (Si) microwave and Landsat-7/8 (L7/8) thermal data.
First, the S1 backscatter coefficient was normalized by its maximum and
minimum values obtained during 2015-2016 agriculture season. Second, the
normalized S1 backscatter coefficient was calibrated from reference
points provided by a thermal-derived SM proxy named soil evaporative
efficiency (SEE, defined as the ratio of actual to potential soil
evaporation). SEE was estimated as the radiometric soil temperature
normalized by its minimum and maximum values reached in a
water-saturated and dry soil, respectively. We estimated both soil
temperature endmembers by using a soil energy balance model forced by
available meteorological forcing. The proposed approach was evaluated
against in situ SM measurements collected over three bare soil fields in
a semi-arid region in Morocco and we compared it against a classical
approach based on radar data only. The two polarizations VV (vertical
transmit and receive) and VH (vertical transmit and horizontal receive)
of the S1 data available over the area are tested to analyse the
sensitivity of radar signal to SM at high incidence angles (39
degrees-43 degrees). We found that the VV polarization was better
correlated to SM than the VH polarization with a determination
coefficient of 0.47 and 0.28, respectively. By combining Si (VV) and
L7/8 data, we reduced the root mean square difference between satellite
and in situ SM to 0.03 m(3) m(-3) which is far smaller than 0.16 m(3)
m(-3) when using SI (VV) only.

### Mapping soil moisture with the OPtical TRApezoid Model (OPTRAM) based on long-term MODIS observations

Authors:
Babaeian, E; Sadeghi, M; Franz, TE; Jones, S; Tuller, M

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 211 425-440; JUN 15 2018 

Abstract:
The Optical TRApezoid Model (OPTRAM) has recently been proposed for
estimation of soil moisture using only optical remote sensing data. The
model relies on a physical linear relationship between the soil moisture
content and shortwave infrared transformed reflectance (SIR) and can be
parameterized universally (i.e., a single calibration for a given area)
based on the pixel distribution within the STR-Normalized Difference
Vegetation Index (NDVI) trapezoidal space. The main motivation for this
study was to evaluate how the universal parameterization of OPTRAM works
for long periods of time (e.g., several decades). This is especially
relevant for uncovering the soil moisture and agricultural drought
history in response to climate change in different regions. In this
study, MODIS satellite observations from 2001 to 2017 were acquired and
used for the analysis. Cosmic ray neutron (CRN) soil moisture data,
collected with the Cosmic-ray Soil Moisture Observing System (COSMOS) at
five different sites in the U.S. covering diverse climates, soil types,
and land covers, were applied for evaluation of the MODIS-OPTRAM-based
soil moisture estimates. The OPTRAM soil moisture estimates were further
compared to the Soil Moisture Active and Passive (SMAP) (L-band), the
Soil Moisture Ocean Salinity (SMOS) (L band), and the Advanced
AScatterometer (ASCAT) (C-band) soil moisture retrievals. OPTRAM soil
moisture data were also analyzed for potential monitoring of
agricultural drought through comparison of the OPTRAM-based Soil Water
Deficit Index (OPTRAM-SWDI) with the widely-applied Crop Moisture Index
(CMI). Evaluation results indicate that OPTRAM-based soil moisture
estimates provide overall unbiased RMSE and R between 0.050 and 0.085
cm(3) cm(-3) and 0.10 to 0.70, respectively, for all investigated sites.
The performance of OPTRAM is comparable with the ASCAT retrievals, but
slightly less accurate than SMAP and SMOS. OPTRAM and the three
microvave satellites captured CRN soil moisture temporal dynamics very
well for all five investigated sites. A close agreement was observed
between the OPTRAM-SWDI and CMI drought indices for most selected sites.
In conclusion, OPTRAM can estimate temporal soil moisture dynamics with
reasonable accuracy for a range of climatic conditions (semi-arid to
humid), soil types, and land covers, and can potentially be applied for
agricultural drought monitoring.


### Spatial point pattern analysis of piping erosion in loess-derived soils in Golestan Province, Iran

Authors:
Hosseinalizadeh, M; Kariminejad, N; Campetella, G; Jalalifard, A;
Alinejad, M

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 328 20-29; OCT 15 2018 

Abstract:
Point pattern analysis of collapsed pipes as a subsurface erosion in
natural and manmade conditions plays an important role to understand
their landforms/features, predisposing factors, and for prevention and
forecasting purposes. Thus, the present study aimed to evaluate the
spatial pattern and the associated land factors of piping erosion in
loess-derived soils in a semiarid climate in Golestan Province, Iran by
applying numerical summary statistics. To this end, a 105 ha area with
homogeneous environmental conditions (gentle slope and loess-derived
soil) was selected and the maps related to 101 collapsed pipes and their
features were obtained by the aerial photos provided by an unmanned
aerial vehicle (UAV) with a 50 cm resolution and field survey. The mean
of spatial distances between pipe locations was 309 m, and the frequency
of pipes per hectare was 0.97. Moreover, soil samples of the pipe
locations were collected and physical-chemical soil properties were
measured in laboratory. Approximately 95% simulation envelopes were
selected using the 5th-lowest and 5th-highest values of 199 Monte Carlo
simulations of the null model of homogeneous complete spatial
randomness. Based on the results of univariate pair correlation
function, the significant aggregation of 101 collapsed pipes was
observed at a scale of 0-50 m in both rangeland and agricultural land
use types. The bivariate pair correlation function, which is considered
to be the most informative second-order summary characteristic, was used
for analyzing the statistical correlations between collapsed pipes and
linear phenomena including distance from drainage networks, ridges, and
roads. Based on bivariate summary statistics, collapsed pipes had
positively been affected by both the distribution of drainage networks
and ridges. However, the negative statistical correlations occurred
between pipes and roads at the scales of 1-50 m. Also, the correlations
of soil characteristics (silt content, exchangeable sodium percentage
(ESP), the weight of soil in a given volume (bulk density), soil
electrical conductivity (EC), and organic matter (O.M.)) of neighboring
collapsed pipes were evaluated by mark correlation function. Based on
mark correlation function k(mm)(r), a significantly positive correlation
was found between the pipes density and silt content, ESP, and bulk
density, when they are more than overall average. In addition, less
values of EC and O.M. were positively related to the aggregation of
collapsed pipes. Similar to the results of summary statistics, the maps
confirmed all statistical correlations. Consequently, the outcome of
this study highlights the spatial pattern of collapsed pipes and their
associations in the study area.


### Geostatistical analysis of pedodiversity in Taihang Mountain region in North China

Authors:
Fu, TG; Han, LP; Gao, H; Liang, HZ; Liu, JT

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 328 91-99; OCT 15 2018 

Abstract:
The protection of pedodiversity is very important for biodiversity
maintenance and food production. However, where and how large should the
protection focus on in a given region (especially in mountain regions
with complex environment) remains unclear. In this study, geostatistical
analysis was used to study pedodiversity indexes (Shannon's index, the
maximum Shannon's index, Richness index and Evenness index) in Taihang
Mountain region in North China. Then pedodiversity protection and buffer
zones were designed. Moreover, the relationship between protection zone
and human activities was determined. The results showed that average
Shannon's index for the study area was 1.72, with two lower value zones
appeared in the north and the south of Taihang Mountain region,
respectively. This suggested that there was the need to enhance the
protection of pedodiversity in the two regions. The ranges of the
Richness index and the Shannon's index were respectively 57.16 km and
96.00 km, indicating that pedodiversity had spatial dependence within
these distances. Therefore, protection zones with radius of 57.16 km and
buffer zones with radius of 96 km was designed. For both the northern
and southern protection zones, the percent area of population density
lower than 1 person/km(2) (35.27% for the north and 51.71% for the
south) was much higher than the average value (27.91%) of Taihang
Mountain region. Furthermore, the percent area of farmland (43.72% for
the north and 40.48% for the south) were higher than the average value
(35.92%). This demonstrated that human activity, especially farming, was
a key consideration in the protection of pedodiversity in the study
region. The results of the study constitute a significant contribution
to the theory of pedodiversity protection and soil resources management.

### Carbon input by roots into the soil: Quantification of rhizodeposition from root to ecosystem scale

Authors:
Pausch, J; Kuzyakov, Y

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (1):1-12; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Despite its fundamental role for carbon (C) and nutrient cycling,
rhizodeposition remains 'the hidden half of the hidden half': it is
highly dynamic and rhizodeposits are rapidly incorporated into
microorganisms, soil organic matter, and decomposed to CO2. Therefore,
rhizodeposition is rarely quantified and remains the most uncertain part
of the soil C cycle and of C fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems. This
review synthesizes and generalizes the literature on C inputs by
rhizodeposition under crops and grasslands (281 data sets). The
allocation dynamics of assimilated C (after C-13-CO2 or C-14-CO2
labeling of plants) were quantified within shoots, shoot respiration,
roots, net rhizodeposition (i.e., C remaining in soil for longer
periods), root-derived CO2, and microorganisms. Partitioning of C pools
and fluxes were used to extrapolate below-ground C inputs via
rhizodeposition to ecosystem level. Allocation from shoots to roots
reaches a maximum within the first day after C assimilation. Annual
crops retained more C (45% of assimilated C-13 or C-14) in shoots than
grasses (34%), mainly perennials, and allocated 1.5 times less C
belowground. For crops, belowground C allocation was maximal during the
first 1-2 months of growth and decreased very fast thereafter. For
grasses, it peaked after 2-4 months and remained very high within the
second year causing much longer allocation periods. Despite higher
belowground C allocation by grasses (33%) than crops (21%), its
distribution between various belowground pools remains very similar.
Hence, the total C allocated belowground depends on the plant species,
but its further fate is species independent. This review demonstrates
that C partitioning can be used in various approaches, e.g., root
sampling, CO2 flux measurements, to assess rhizodeposits' pools and
fluxes at pot, plot, field and ecosystem scale and so, to close the most
uncertain gap of the terrestrial C cycle.


### Analysis of climate signals in the crop yield record of sub-Saharan Africa

Authors:
Hoffman, AL; Kemanian, AR; Forest, CE

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (1):143-157; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Food security and agriculture productivity assessments in sub-Saharan
Africa (SSA) require a better understanding of how climate and other
drivers influence regional crop yields. In this paper, our objective was
to identify the climate signal in the realized yields of maize, sorghum,
and groundnut in SSA. We explored the relation between crop yields and
scale-compatible climate data for the 1962-2014 period using Random
Forest, a diagnostic machine learning technique. We found that improved
agricultural technology and country fixed effects are three times more
important than climate variables for explaining changes in crop yields
in SSA. We also found that increasing temperatures reduced yields for
all three crops in the temperature range observed in SSA, while
precipitation increased yields up to a level roughly matching crop
evapotranspiration. Crop yields exhibited both linear and nonlinear
responses to temperature and precipitation, respectively. For maize,
technology steadily increased yields by about 1% (13 kg/ha) per year
while increasing temperatures decreased yields by 0.8% (10 kg/ha) per
degrees C. This study demonstrates that although we should expect
increases in future crop yields due to improving technology, the
potential yields could be progressively reduced due to warmer and drier
climates.








