---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-04-04
modified: 2018-04-04
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #7

* Modelling soil-water dynamics in the rootzone of structured and water-repellent soils
* A parallel competitive Particle Swarm Optimization for non-linear first arrival traveltime tomography and uncertainty quantification
* Fusion of pixel and object-based features for weed mapping using unmanned aerial vehicle imagery
* How does no-till deliver carbon stabilization and saturation in highly weathered soils?
* Study of applying naturally occurring mineral sorbents of Poland (dolomite halloysite, chalcedonite) for aided phytostabilization of soil polluted with heavy metals
* Obtaining soil hydraulic parameters from soil water content data assimilation under different climatic/soil conditions
* The Nitrogen Balancing Act: Tracking the Environmental Performance of Food Production























<!--more-->

### Modelling soil-water dynamics in the rootzone of structured and water-repellent soils

Authors:
Brown, H; Carrick, S; Muller, K; Thomas, S; Sharp, J; Cichota, R;
Holzworth, D; Clothier, B

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 113 33-42; APR 2018 

Abstract:
In modelling the hydrology of Earth's critical zone, there are two major
challenges. The first is to understand and model the processes of
infiltration, runoff, redistribution and root-water uptake in structured
soils that exhibit preferential flows through macropore networks. The
other challenge is to parametrise and model the impact of ephemeral
hydrophobicity of water-repellent soils. Here we have developed a
soil-water model, which is based on physical principles, yet possesses
simple functionality to enable easier parameterisation, so as to predict
soil-water dynamics in structured soils displaying time-varying degrees
of hydrophobicity. Our model, WEIRDO (Water Evapotranspiration
Infiltration Redistribution Drainage runoff), has been developed in the
APSIM Next Generation platform (Agricultural Production Systems
sIMulation). The model operates on an hourly time-step. The repository
for this open-source code is https://protect-au.mimecast.com/s/ZvqKCK1qJZtZgQj4uMrMzq?domain=github.com.
We have carried out sensitivity tests to show how WEIRDO predicts
infiltration, drainage, redistribution, transpiration and soil-water
evaporation for three distinctly different soil textures displaying
differing hydraulic properties. These three soils were drawn from the
UNSODA (Unsaturated SOil hydraulic Database) soils database of the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). We show how preferential
flow process and hydrophobicity determine the spatio-temporal pattern of
soil-water dynamics. Finally, we have validated WEIRDO by comparing its
predictions against three years of soil-water content measurements made
under an irrigated alfalfa (Medicago saliva L.) trial. The results
provide validation of the model's ability to simulate soil-water
dynamics in structured soils.


### A parallel competitive Particle Swarm Optimization for non-linear first arrival traveltime tomography and uncertainty quantification

Authors:
Luu, K; Noble, M; Gesret, A; Belayouni, N; Roux, PF

Source:
*COMPUTERS & GEOSCIENCES*, 113 81-93; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Seismic traveltime tomography is an optimization problem that requires
large computational efforts. Therefore, linearized techniques are
commonly used for their low computational cost. These local optimization
methods are likely to get trapped in a local minimum as they critically
depend on the initial model. On the other hand, global optimization
methods based on MCMC are insensitive to the initial model but turn out
to be computationally expensive. Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is a
rather new global optimization approach with few tuning parameters that
has shown excellent convergence rates and is straightforwardly
parallelizable, allowing a good distribution of the workload. However,
while it can traverse several local minima of the evaluated misfit
function, classical implementation of PSO can get trapped in local
minima at later iterations as particles inertia dim. We propose a
Competitive PSO (CPSO) to help particles to escape from local minima
with a simple implementation that improves swarm's diversity. The model
space can be sampled by running the optimizer multiple times and by
keeping all the models explored by the swarms in the different runs. A
traveltime tomography algorithm based on CPSO is successfully applied on
a real 3D data set in the context of induced seismicity.

### Fusion of pixel and object-based features for weed mapping using unmanned aerial vehicle imagery

Authors:
Gao, JF; Liao, WZ; Nuyttens, D; Lootens, P; Vangeyte, J; Pizurica, A;
He, Y; Pieters, JG

Source:
*INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION*, 67 43-53; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
The developments in the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and
advanced imaging sensors provide new opportunities for ultra-high
resolution (e.g., less than a 10 cm ground sampling distance (GSD)) crop
field monitoring and mapping in precision agriculture applications. In
this study, we developed a strategy for inter and intra-row weed
detection in early season maize fields from aerial visual imagery. More
specifically, the Hough transform algorithm (HT) was applied to the
orthomosaicked images for inter-row weed detection. A semi-automatic
Object-Based Image Analysis (OBIA) procedure was developed with Random
Forests (RF) combined with feature selection techniques to classify
soil, weeds and maize. Furthermore, the two binary weed masks generated
from HT and OBIA were fused for accurate binary weed image. The
developed RF classifier was evaluated by 5-fold cross validation, and it
obtained an overall accuracy of 0.945, and Kappa value of 0.912.
Finally, the relationship of detected weeds and their ground truth
densities was quantified by a fitted linear model with a coefficient of
determination of 0.895 and a root mean square error of 0.026. Besides,
the importance of input features was evaluated, and it was found that
the ratio of vegetation length and width was the most significant
feature for the classification model. Overall, our approach can yield a
satisfactory weed map, and we expect that the obtained accurate and
timely weed map from UAV imagery will be applicable to realize
site-specific weed management (SSWM) in early season crop fields for
reducing spraying non-selective herbicides and costs.

### How does no-till deliver carbon stabilization and saturation in highly weathered soils?

Authors:
Briedis, C; Sa, JCD; Lal, R; Tivet, F; Franchini, JC; Ferreira, AD;
Hartman, DD; Schimiguel, R; Bressan, PT; Inagaki, TM; Romaniw, J;
Goncalves, DRP

Source:
*CATENA*, 163 13-23; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Research data on the mechanisms of C stabilization and saturation
affected by soil management systems in highly weathered soils remain
scarce. Past studies have revealed the fundamental role of aggregation
promoted by soil conservation practices in the physical protection of C
fractions. This study is based on the hypothesis that the increased
physical C protection provides sufficient time to strengthen the
interaction between C fractions and soil minerals, as being the pathway
for C stabilization and accumulation in highly weathered soils. Thus,
the objectives of this study were to: i) evaluate the C stocks including
labile and mineral-associated C fractions in soil under conventional
(CT), no-till (NT) and native vegetation (NV), and, ii) assess the C
saturation level in different C fractions through the use of contrasting
mathematical models of C accumulation. Soil samples were collected
(0-100 cm depth) from agroecosystems established in tropical (Lucas do
Rio Verde) and subtropical (Ponta Grossa and Londrina) regions of
Brazil. The data show that all C fractions were affected by soil
management systems. However, the impact was more pronounced with the
labile C fractions than with the mineral associated C fractions. The
depletion of C stock of labile fractions in the 0-5 cm layer upon
conversion of NV to CT accounted for 86, 89 and 72% of total C in soil
of Ponta Grossa, Londrina and Lucas do Rio Verde, respectively. On the
other hand, compared to CT, restoration of 89, 15 and 12% of these
labile fractions was observed at these respective sites with adoption of
NT. The mineral-associated C fraction was the best fit to a C saturation
model at all sites. The estimated C saturation level for this fraction
was 98.1, 60.2 and 39.1 g C kg(-1) silt + clay at the Ponta Grossa,
Londrina and Lucas do Rio Verde sites, respectively, which is still far
from the current C content. Thus, the long-term use of NT might be the
pathway for physical protection of the labile C fractions as well as
strong organo-mineral associations. Together, these processes contribute
to C stabilization and accumulation in highly weathered soils.

### Study of applying naturally occurring mineral sorbents of Poland (dolomite halloysite, chalcedonite) for aided phytostabilization of soil polluted with heavy metals

Authors:
Radziemska, M

Source:
*CATENA*, 163 123-129; APR 2018 

Abstract:
A greenhouse experiment was carried out for evaluating the effects of
mineral sorbents, i.e.: dolomite, halloysite, and chalcedonite on the
chemical characteristics of soil contaminated with heavy metals and the
uptake of metals by plants. The contents of trace elements in the plants
and soil were determined using the method of spectrophotometry. All of
the investigated element contents in the tested parts of F. rubra
differed significantly in the case of applying mineral sorbents to the
soil, as well as increasing concentrations of Pb, Cd and Zn. The
greatest average above-ground biomass was observed when chalcedonite and
halloysite were amended into the soil. Halloysite and chalcedonite also
caused significant increases in Pb, Cd and Zn concentrations in the
roots. The addition of dolomite significantly increased soil pH.
Halloysite and chalcedonite were shown to be the most effective and
decreased the average Pb, Cd and Zn contents in soil.

### Obtaining soil hydraulic parameters from soil water content data assimilation under different climatic/soil conditions

Authors:
Valdes-Abellan, J; Pachepsky, Y; Martinez, G

Source:
*CATENA*, 163 311-320; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Obtaining reliable soil hydraulic properties is essential for correct
simulations of soil water content (SWC), which is a key variable in
countless applications such as agricultural management, soil
remediation, aquifer protection, etc. Soil hydraulic properties can be
measured in the laboratory; however, the procedures are laborious and
costly, and may provide estimates different from those observed in the
field. An alternative approach is to obtain soil hydraulic properties
using a soil water flow model in conjunction with SWC monitoring data.
The goal of the present study was to analyze the efficiency of obtaining
hydraulic properties utilizing data assimilation (DA) based on the
Ensemble Kalman Filter method. Two soil textures in homogeneous soil
profiles, and four climatic conditions were considered; observations of
soil moisture data were synthetically generated using HYDRUS-1D and
subsequently perturbed by the application of the conditional
multivariate normal distribution. When observed SWC varied in relatively
narrow range as a consequence of the forcing imposed by dry climate
atmospheric boundary conditions, data assimilation provided sets of
properties that led to good Richards model performance, with the RMSE
below 0.02 and/or R-2 above 0.8 after a period of just 100 days and
above 0.98 after a period of three years in all climate/soil conditions.
However, the closeness of parameters from DA to the parameters used to
generate the synthetic data depended on weather conditions and soil
properties. One year was adequate to obtain reliable soil hydraulic
properties with data assimilation.

### The Nitrogen Balancing Act: Tracking the Environmental Performance of Food Production

Authors:
McLellan, EL; Cassman, KG; Eagle, AJ; Woodbury, PB; Sela, S; Tonitto, C;
Marjerison, RD; van Es, HM

Source:
*BIOSCIENCE*, 68 (3):194-203; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
Farmers, food supply-chain entities, and policymakers need a simple but
robust indicator to demonstrate progress toward reducing nitrogen
pollution associated with food production. We show that nitrogen
balance-the difference between nitrogen inputs and nitrogen outputs in
an agricultural production system-is a robust measure of nitrogen losses
that is simple to calculate, easily understood, and based on readily
available farm data. Nitrogen balance provides farmers with a means of
demonstrating to an increasingly concerned public that they are
succeeding in reducing nitrogen losses while also improving the overall
sustainability of their farming operation. Likewise, supply-chain
companies and policymakers can use nitrogen balance to track progress
toward sustainability goals. We describe the value of nitrogen balance
in translating environmental targets into actionable goals for farmers
and illustrate the potential roles of science, policy, and agricultural
support networks in helping farmers achieve them.






