---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-09-25
modified: 2018-09-25
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #18


* Optimum soil water content sensors placement for surface drip irrigation scheduling in layered soils
* Multi-stage committee based extreme learning machine model incorporating the influence of climate parameters and seasonality on drought forecasting
* An Integrated View of Complex Landscapes: A Big Data-Model Integration Approach to Transdisciplinary Science
* The Interactive Role of Wind and Water in Functioning of Drylands: What Does the Future Hold?
* Soil carbon dynamics in wheat plots established on grassland in 1911 as influenced by nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers
* Spatial modelling with Euclidean distance fields and machine learning
* Testing soil phosphorus in a depleting P scenario: an accelerated soil mining experiment
* Simultaneous determination of soil bulk density and water content: a heat pulse-based method
* High-Resolution Shortwave Infrared Imaging of Water Infiltration into Dry Soil
* Measurement and Partitioning of Evapotranspiration for Application to Vadose Zone Studies








<!--more-->

### Optimum soil water content sensors placement for surface drip irrigation scheduling in layered soils

Authors:
Soulis, KX; Elmaloglou, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 152 1-8; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Efficient irrigation management requires a sound information basis;
therefore, various environmental measurements are currently used in
irrigation scheduling. Among other technics, the recent progress in
electromagnetic sensors technologies promoted the development of
automated irrigation scheduling systems based on soil water content
sensors with very promising results in terms of water savings. However,
a key factor for the adequate performance of such systems is proper
placement of soil moisture sensors. Up to now, sensor placement
guidelines are fragmentary or empirically determined from site and crop
specific experiments. This study aims to extend the findings of previous
studies investigating the issue of proper positioning of water content
sensors in drip irrigation scheduling systems in uniform soils for the
case of layered soils. In this context the representativeness of soil
water content sensors' readings and the existence of Time Stable
Representative Positions (TSRP) are investigated using a specially
developed mathematical model. The use of soil water content probes that
are able to monitor soil water content at various depths is also
evaluated. It was found that in contrast to the previous findings
concerning uniform soils, in the case of layered soils it is not
possible to precisely monitor the average soil water content temporal
variation in the root zone using a single sensor; however, it is
feasible to achieve this using a pair of sensors. Furthermore, common
optimum positions for a pair of sensors providing representative soil
water content readings independently from the prevailing conditions and
the irrigation system configuration can be identified. It was also found
that soil water content probes covering the average rooting depth and
penetrating both soil layers are also able to provide representative
soil water content readings during the whole duration of the irrigation
cycle. The above results represent a further step towards the
development of general guidelines for sensor placement in soil water
content based surface drip irrigation scheduling systems.

### Multi-stage committee based extreme learning machine model incorporating the influence of climate parameters and seasonality on drought forecasting

Authors:
Ali, M; Deo, RC; Downs, NJ; Maraseni, T

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 152 149-165; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Drought forewarning is an important decisive task since drought is
perceived a recurrent feature of climate variability and climate change
leading to catastrophic consequences for agriculture, ecosystem
sustainability, and food and water scarcity. This study designs and
evaluates a soft-computing drought modelling framework in context of
Pakistan, a drought-stricken nation, by means of a committee extreme
learning machine (Comm-ELM) model in respect to a committee particle
swarm optimization-adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system
(Comm-PSO-ANFIS) and committee multiple linear regression (Comm-MLR)
model applied to forecast monthly standardized precipitation index
(SPI). The proposed Comm-ELM model incorporates historical monthly
rainfall, temperature, humidity, Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) at
monthly lag (t - 1) and the respective month (i.e., periodicity factor)
as the explanatory variable for the drought's behaviour defined by SPI.
The model accuracy is assessed by root mean squared error, mean absolute
error, correlation coefficient, Willmott's index, Nash-Sutcliffe
efficiency and Legates McCabe's index in the independent test dataset.
With the incorporation of periodicity as an input factor, the
performance of the Comm-ELM model for Islamabad, Multan and Dera Ismail
Khan (D. I. Khan) as the test stations, was remarkably improved in
respect to the Comm-PSO-ANFIS and Comm-MLR model. Other than the
superiority of Comm-ELM over the alternative models tested for monthly
SPI forecasting, we also highlight the importance of the periodicity
cycle as a pertinent predictor variable in a drought forecasting model.
The results ascertain that the model accuracy scales with geographic
factors, due to the complexity of drought phenomenon and its
relationship with the different inputs and data attributes that can
affect the overall evolution of a drought event. The findings of this
study has important implications for agricultural decision-making where
future knowledge of drought can be used to develop climate risk
mitigation strategies for better crop management.

### An Integrated View of Complex Landscapes: A Big Data-Model Integration Approach to Transdisciplinary Science

Authors:
Peters, DPC; Burruss, ND; Rodriguez, LL; Mcvey, DS; Elias, EH;
Pelzel-Mccluskey, AM; Derner, JD; Schrader, TS; Yao, J; Pauszek, SJ;
Lombard, J; Archer, SR; Bestelmeyer, BT; Browning, DM; Brungard, CW;
Hatfield, JL; Hanan, NP; Herrick, JE; Okin, GS; Sala, OE; Savoy, H;
Vivoni, ER

Source:
*BIOSCIENCE*, 68 (9):653-669; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
The Earth is a complex system comprising many interacting spatial and
temporal scales. We developed a transdisciplinary data-model integration
(TDMI) approach to understand, predict; and manage for these complex
dynamics that focuses on spatiotemporal modeling and cross-scale
interactions. Our approach employs human-centered machine-learning
strategies supported by a data science integration system (DSIS).
Applied to ecological problems, our approach integrates knowledge and
data on (a) biological processes, (b) spatial heterogeneity in the land
surface template, and (c) variability in environmental drivers using
data and knowledge drawn from multiple lines of evidence (cc.,
observations, experimental manipulations, analytical and numerical
models, products from imagery, conceptual model reasoning, and theory).
We apply this transdisciplinary approach to a suite of increasingly
complex ecologically relevant problems and then discuss how information
management systems will need to evolve into DSIS to allow other
transdisciplinary questions to be addressed in the future.

### The Interactive Role of Wind and Water in Functioning of Drylands: What Does the Future Hold?

Authors:
Okin, GS; Sala, OE; Vivoni, ER; Zhang, JZ; Bhattachan, A

Source:
*BIOSCIENCE*, 68 (9):670-677; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Feedback mechanisms between abiotic and biotic processes in dryland
ecosystems lead to a strong sensitivity to interannual variations in
climate. Under a future regime of higher temperatures but potentially
increased rainfall variability drylands are anticipated to experience
changes in wind and water transport that will alter plant community
composition and feedback on landscape connectivity Here, we present a
conceptual framework for understanding the coupling of vegetation
productivity, aeolian transport, and hydrologic connectivity under
anticipated changes in future climate, which suggests that a more
extreme climatic regime will lead to more connected landscapes with
attendant losses in soil, nutrient, and water resources. When enhanced
connectivity triggers state changes, irreversible changes in ecosystem
functioning can occur, with implications for the future of global
drylands.

### Soil carbon dynamics in wheat plots established on grassland in 1911 as influenced by nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers

Authors:
Karimi, R; Janzen, HH; Smith, EG; Ellert, BH; Krobel, R

Source:
*CANADIAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 98 (3):580-583; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Soil organic carbon (SOC) changes slowly, and final management
influences can be measured only after decades. Analysis of archived
samples from a site established on grassland in 1911 showed that SOC,
under wheat systems, approached steady state after several decades, and
that its amount reflected the inputs of residue C.


### Spatial modelling with Euclidean distance fields and machine learning

Authors:
Behrens, T; Schmidt, K; Rossel, RAV; Gries, P; Scholten, T; MacMillan,
RA

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (5):757-770; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
This study introduces a hybrid spatial modelling framework, which
accounts for spatial non-stationarity, spatial autocorrelation and
environmental correlation. A set of geographic spatially autocorrelated
Euclidean distance fields (EDF) was used to provide additional spatially
relevant predictors to the environmental covariates commonly used for
mapping. The approach was used in combination with machine-learning
methods, so we called the method Euclidean distance fields in
machine-learning (EDM). This method provides advantages over other
prediction methods that integrate spatial dependence and state factor
models, for example, regression kriging (RK) and geographically weighted
regression (GWR). We used seven generic (EDFs) and several commonly used
predictors with different regression algorithms in two digital soil
mapping (DSM) case studies and compared the results to those achieved
with ordinary kriging (OK), RK and GWR as well as the multiscale methods
ConMap, ConStat and contextual spatial modelling (CSM). The algorithms
tested in EDM were a linear model, bagged multivariate adaptive
regression splines (MARS), radial basis function support vector machines
(SVM), Cubist, random forest (RF) and a neural network (NN) ensemble.
The study demonstrated that DSM with EDM provided results comparable to
RK and to the contextual multiscale methods. Best results were obtained
with Cubist, RF and bagged MARS. Because the tree-based approaches
produce discontinuous response surfaces, the resulting maps can show
visible artefacts when only the EDFs are used as predictors (i.e. no
additional environmental covariates). Artefacts were not obvious for SVM
and NN and to a lesser extent bagged MARS. An advantage of EDM is that
it accounts for spatial non-stationarity and spatial autocorrelation
when using a small set of additional predictors. The EDM is a new method
that provides a practical alternative to more conventional spatial
modelling and thus it enhances the DSM toolbox.


### Testing soil phosphorus in a depleting P scenario: an accelerated soil mining experiment

Authors:
Nawara, S; van Dael, T; De Cooman, E; Elsen, A; Merckx, R; Smolders, E;
Amery, F

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (5):804-815; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
The reduced use of phosphorus (P) fertilizer in fertile soil has
reverted the P balance to negative in some regions. It is unclear how
long current soil P stocks will ensure adequate P supply to crops. In
addition, it is unknown if current soil tests for available P describe
bioavailable P adequately in soil where P is becoming depleted. We set
up an accelerated soil P mining test to address these questions.
Perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne, Melpetra tetra) was grown for 2years
in a greenhouse on 5-cm-deep soil layers of eight contrasting soils with
periodic grass clipping. Each soil was split into four fertilizer
treatments (i.e. no P (-P) and adequate P (+P)) and two nitrogen levels,
the latter to alter the rate of P uptake. The long-term P mining induced
P-related yield losses in seven of the 16 soil treatments. The
cumulative uptake of shoot P at which yield loss started to exceed 10%
(-P versus +P) varied over a small range of 37-74mg Pkg(-1) soil among
the soils. This critical cumulative P uptake (CCP) was related to the
soil P content prior to mining measured by five soil P tests (ammonium
oxalate, ammonium lactate (AL), Olsen P, 0.01m CaCl2 and the diffusive
gradient in thin film technique (DGT)); the largest R-2 values were
observed for P-AL (R-2=0.72) and P-DGT (R-2=0.73). However, none of the
tests was diagnostic for yield loss during the depletion period.
Increased N supply accelerated growth and rates of P uptake and
decreased the CCP by a factor of 1.7 on average, illustrating the effect
of the rate of biomass production. The CCP values obtained in the
treatment with reduced N fertilizer application are likely to be the
most relevant for the field and suggest that current stocks allow
adequate P supply for arable crops for 3-8years under zero P application
(0-23cm) in soils similar to those tested. The lack of a successful
diagnosis for P deficiency during this depletion experiment calls for
further calibration of soil tests for available P in the field.


### Simultaneous determination of soil bulk density and water content: a heat pulse-based method

Authors:
Lu, Y; Horton, R; Ren, T

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 69 (5):947-952; SEP 2018 

Abstract:
Soil bulk density ((b)) and volumetric water content () determine the
volume fractions of soil solids, water and air, and influence mass and
energy transfer in soil. It is desirable to monitor (b) and concurrently
and non-destructively. We present a heat pulse-based method for
simultaneous determination of (b) and from soil thermal properties. The
method uses equations that relate (b) and to soil volumetric heat
capacity (C) and to soil thermal conductivity (). We developed a
three-step procedure to calculate (b) and from C and measured by a heat
pulse sensor, with soil texture and specific heat of soil solids known a
priori. Laboratory evaluation of soil samples with various textures
showed that the three-step method provided reliable estimates of (b) and
at values greater than the critical water content ((c)) when started to
respond notably to increases in . This method provides a new way to
determine (b) and simultaneously with heat pulse sensors.HighlightsWe
developed an approach to determine soil bulk density (.. b) and water
content (..) simultaneously with a heat pulse sensor. We estimated.. b
and.. from soil thermal properties based on heat capacity and thermal
conductivity models. The new approach provided reliable.. b and.. values
at water contents >.. c, the critical value. At.. <.. c, the approach
gave unstable results because soil thermal conductivity was insensitive
to.. b.

### High-Resolution Shortwave Infrared Imaging of Water Infiltration into Dry Soil

Authors:
Sadeghi, M; Sheng, WY; Babaeian, E; Tuller, M; Jones, SB

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (13):NIL_91-NIL_100; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
A novel proximal sensing framework for high-resolution soil water
content profile retrieval under laboratory conditions has been
developed. Constant-head upward-flow experiments were conducted for a
number of soils that cover a wide textural range. The soils were packed
into quartz Hele-Shaw cells, and the profile was imaged at high temporal
frequency with a short-wave infrared (SWIR) camera in the 900- to
1700-nm electromagnetic domain during upward infiltration of water. The
SWIR reflectance recorded for each spatial pixel was converted to soil
water content with a recently developed linear physical model. Because
of the linearity of the model, its parameters were assumed to be
identical at both the pixel and column scales, and this allowed simple
self-calibration during the experiment. The obtained water content
profiles were in good agreement with soil water content data measured
independently with a recently developed time domain reflectometry array
with 1-cm depth resolution. In addition, the accuracy of the soil water
content profiles was verified based on the water mass balance. The
high-spatiotemporal-resolution SWIR reflectance-derived water content
profiles allow calculation of water flux densities, which provides a
potential new avenue for the rapid estimation of soil hydraulic
properties and processes via inverse numerical or analytical modeling.


### Measurement and Partitioning of Evapotranspiration for Application to Vadose Zone Studies

Authors:
Anderson, RG; Zhang, XD; Skaggs, TH

Source:
*VADOSE ZONE JOURNAL*, 16 (13):NIL_82-NIL_90; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Partitioning evapotranspiration (ET) into its constituent components,
evaporation (E) and transpiration (T), is important for numerous
hydrological purposes including assessing impacts of management
practices on water use efficiency and improved validation of vadose zone
models that parameterize E and T separately. However, most
long-established observational techniques have short observational
timescales and spatial footprints, raising questions about the
representativeness of these measurements. In the past 15 yr, new
approaches have allowed ET partitioning at spatial scales ranging from
the pedon to the globe and at long timescales. In this update, we review
some recent methodological developments for partitioning ET. These
include micrometeorological approaches involving the flux variance
partitioning of high-frequency eddy covariance observations and proxies
for photosynthesis and transpiration such as measurements of isotopic
fractionation and carbonyl sulfide uptake. We discuss advances in
partitioning the energy balance between canopy and soil using remote
sensing. We conclude that the flux variance partitioning with raw eddy
covariance data and the two-source energy balance approaches with remote
sensing platforms may have the greatest potential for partitioning ET,
in part because large public repositories of eddy covariance and
satellite data could be readily reprocessed to partition ET.












