---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-03-23
modified: 2018-03-23
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #6

* Temperature sensitivity of soil organic carbon decomposition increased with mean carbon residence time: Field incubation and data assimilation
* Networking our science to characterize the state, vulnerabilities, and management opportunities of soil organic matter.
* Soil pH as the chief modifier for regional nitrous oxide emissions: New evidence and implications for global estimates and mitigation.
* Assessment of ecosystem resilience to hydroclimatic disturbances in India
* Assessing uncertainties in crop and pasture ensemble model simulations of productivity and N2O emissions
* Is Rock-Eval 6 thermal analysis a good indicator of soil organic carbon lability? - A method-comparison study in forest soils.
Use of the USDA National Cooperative Soil Survey Soil Characterization Data to Detect Soil Change: A Cautionary Tale.


























<!--more-->

### Temperature sensitivity of soil organic carbon decomposition increased with mean carbon residence time: Field incubation and data assimilation

Authors:
Zhou, XH; Xu, X; Zhou, GY; Luo, YQ

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):810-822; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Temperature sensitivity of soil organic carbon (SOC) decomposition is
one of the major uncertainties in predicting climate-carbon (C) cycle
feedback. Results from previous studies are highly contradictory with
old soil C decomposition being more, similarly, or less sensitive to
temperature than decomposition of young fractions. The contradictory
results are partly from difficulties in distinguishing old from young
SOC and their changes over time in the experiments with or without
isotopic techniques. In this study, we have conducted a long-term field
incubation experiment with deep soil collars (0-70 cm in depth, 10 cm in
diameter of PVC tubes) for excluding root C input to examine apparent
temperature sensitivity of SOC decomposition under ambient and warming
treatments from 2002 to 2008. The data from the experiment were infused
into a multi-pool soil C model to estimate intrinsic temperature
sensitivity of SOC decomposition and C residence times of three SOC
fractions (i.e., active, slow, and passive) using a data assimilation
(DA) technique. As active SOC with the short C residence time was
progressively depleted in the deep soil collars under both ambient and
warming treatments, the residences times of the whole SOC became longer
over time. Concomitantly, the estimated apparent and intrinsic
temperature sensitivity of SOC decomposition also became gradually
higher over time as more than 50% of active SOC was depleted. Thus, the
temperature sensitivity of soil C decomposition in deep soil collars was
positively correlated with the mean C residence times. However, the
regression slope of the temperature sensitivity against the residence
time was lower under the warming treatment than under ambient
temperature, indicating that other processes also regulated temperature
sensitivity of SOC decomposition. These results indicate that old SOC
decomposition is more sensitive to temperature than young components,
making the old C more vulnerable to future warmer climate.


### Networking our science to characterize the state, vulnerabilities, and management opportunities of soil organic matter

Authors:
Harden, JW; Hugelius, G; Ahlstrom, A; Blankinship, JC; Bond-Lamberty, B;
Lawrence, CR; Loisel, J; Malhotra, A; Jackson, RB; Ogle, S; Phillips, C;
Ryals, R; Todd-Brown, K; Vargas, R; Vergara, SE; Cotrufo, MF; Keiluweit,
M; Heckman, KA; Crow, SE; Silver, WL; DeLonge, M; Nave, LE

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):e705-e718; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Soil organic matter (SOM) supports the Earth's ability to sustain
terrestrial ecosystems, provide food and fiber, and retains the largest
pool of actively cycling carbon. Over 75% of the soil organic carbon
(SOC) in the top meter of soil is directly affected by human land use.
Large land areas have lost SOC as a result of land use practices, yet
there are compensatory opportunities to enhance productivity and SOC
storage in degraded lands through improved management practices. Large
areas with and without intentional management are also being subjected
to rapid changes in climate, making many SOC stocks vulnerable to losses
by decomposition or disturbance. In order to quantify potential SOC
losses or sequestration at field, regional, and global scales,
measurements for detecting changes in SOC are needed. Such measurements
and soil-management best practices should be based on well established
and emerging scientific understanding of processes of C stabilization
and destabilization over various timescales, soil types, and spatial
scales. As newly engaged members of the International Soil Carbon
Network, we have identified gaps in data, modeling, and communication
that underscore the need for an open, shared network to frame and guide
the study of SOM and SOC and their management for sustained production
and climate regulation.

### Soil pH as the chief modifier for regional nitrous oxide emissions: New evidence and implications for global estimates and mitigation

Authors:
Wang, YJ; Guo, JH; Vogt, RD; Mulder, J; Wang, JG; Zhang, XS

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):E617-E626; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Nitrous oxide (N2O) is a greenhouse gas that also plays the primary role
in stratospheric ozone depletion. The use of nitrogen fertilizers is
known as the major reason for atmospheric N2O increase. Empirical
bottom-up models therefore estimate agricultural N2O inventories using N
loading as the sole predictor, disregarding the regional heterogeneities
in soil inherent response to external N loading. Several environmental
factors have been found to influence the response in soil N2O emission
to N fertilization, but their interdependence and relative importance
have not been addressed properly. Here, we show that soil pH is the
chief factor explaining regional disparities in N2O emission, using a
global meta-analysis of 1,104 field measurements. The emission factor
(EF) of N2O increases significantly (p < .001) with soil pH decrease.
The default EF value of 1.0%, according to IPCC (Intergovernmental
Panelon Climate Change) for agricultural soils, occurs at soil pH 6.76.
Moreover, changes in EF with N fertilization (i.e. EF) is also
negatively correlated (p < .001) with soil pH. This indicates that N2O
emission in acidic soils is more sensitive to changing N fertilization
than that in alkaline soils. Incorporating our findings into bottom-up
models has significant consequences for regional and global N2O emission
inventories and reconciling them with those from top-down models.
Moreover, our results allow region-specific development of tailor-made
N2O mitigation measures in agriculture.

### Assessment of ecosystem resilience to hydroclimatic disturbances in India

Authors:
Sharma, A; Goyal, MK

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):E432-E441; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Recent studies have shown an increasing trend in hydroclimatic
disturbances like droughts, which are anticipated to become more
frequent and intense under global warming and climate change. Droughts
adversely affect the vegetation growth and crop yield, which enhances
the risks to food security for a country like India with over 1.2
billion people to feed. Here, we compared the response of terrestrial
net primary productivity (NPP) to hydroclimatic disturbances in India at
different scales (i.e., at river basins, land covers, and climate types)
to examine the ecosystems' resilience to such adverse conditions. The
ecosystem water use efficiency (WUEe: NPP/Evapotranspiration) is an
effective indicator of ecosystem productivity, linking carbon (C) and
water cycles. We found a significant difference (p<.05) in WUEe across
India at different scales. The ecosystem resilience analysis indicated
that most of the river basins were not resilient enough to hydroclimatic
disturbances. Drastic reduction in WUEe under dry conditions was
observed for some basins, which highlighted the cross-biome incapability
to withstand such conditions. The ecosystem resilience at land cover and
climate type scale did not completely relate to the basin-scale
ecosystem resilience, which indicated that ecosystem resilience at basin
scale is controlled by some other ecohydrological processes. Our results
facilitate the identification of the most sensitive regions in the
country for ecosystem management and climate policy making, and
highlight the need for taking sufficient adaptation measures to ensure
sustainability of ecosystems.


### Assessing uncertainties in crop and pasture ensemble model simulations of productivity and N2O emissions

Authors:
Ehrhardt, F; Soussana, JF; Bellocchi, G; Grace, P; McAuliffe, R; Recous,
S; Sandor, R; Smith, P; Snow, V; Migliorati, MD; Basso, B; Bhatia, A;
Brilli, L; Doltra, J; Dorich, CD; Doro, L; Fitton, N; Giacomini, SJ;
Grant, B; Harrison, MT; Jones, SK; Kirschbaum, MUF; Klumpp, K; Laville,
P; Leonard, J; Liebig, M; Lieffering, M; Martin, R; Massad, RS; Meier,
E; Merbold, L; Moore, AD; Myrgiotis, V; Newton, P; Pattey, E; Rolinski,
S; Sharp, J; Smith, WN; Wu, LH; Zhang, Q

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):E603-E616; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Simulation models are extensively used to predict agricultural
productivity and greenhouse gas emissions. However, the uncertainties of
(reduced) model ensemble simulations have not been assessed
systematically for variables affecting food security and climate change
mitigation, within multi-species agricultural contexts. We report an
international model comparison and benchmarking exercise, showing the
potential of multi-model ensembles to predict productivity and nitrous
oxide (N2O) emissions for wheat, maize, rice and temperate grasslands.
Using a multi-stage modelling protocol, from blind simulations (stage 1)
to partial (stages 2-4) and full calibration (stage 5), 24 process-based
biogeochemical models were assessed individually or as an ensemble
against long-term experimental data from four temperate grassland and
five arable crop rotation sites spanning four continents. Comparisons
were performed by reference to the experimental uncertainties of
observed yields and N2O emissions. Results showed that across sites and
crop/grassland types, 23%-40% of the uncalibrated individual models were
within two standard deviations (SD) of observed yields, while 42 (rice)
to 96% (grasslands) of the models were within 1 SD of observed N2O
emissions. At stage 1, ensembles formed by the three lowest prediction
model errors predicted both yields and N2O emissions within experimental
uncertainties for 44% and 33% of the crop and grassland growth cycles,
respectively. Partial model calibration (stages 2-4) markedly reduced
prediction errors of the full model ensemble E-median for crop grain
yields (from 36% at stage 1 down to 4% on average) and grassland
productivity (from 44% to 27%) and to a lesser and more variable extent
for N2O emissions. Yield-scaled N2O emissions (N2O emissions divided by
crop yields) were ranked accurately by three-model ensembles across crop
species and field sites. The potential of using process-based model
ensembles to predict jointly productivity and N2O emissions at field
scale is discussed.

### Is Rock-Eval 6 thermal analysis a good indicator of soil organic carbon lability? - A method-comparison study in forest soils

Authors:
Soucemarianadin, L; Cecillon, L; Chenu, C; Baudin, F; Nicolas, M;
Girardin, C; Barre, P

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 117 108-116; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Soil respiration tests and abundance of particulate organic matter (POM)
are considered as classical indicators of the labile soil organic carbon
(SOC) pool. However, there is still no widely accepted standard method
to assess SOC lability and the pertinence of these two time-consuming
methods to characterize SOC turnover can be questioned. Alternate ways
of determining the labile SOC fraction are thus much needed. Thermal
analyses, in particular Rock-Eval 6 (RE6) analysis has shown promising
results in the determination of SOC biogeochemical stability.Using a
large set of samples (n = 99) of French forest soils representing
contrasted pedoclimatic conditions, including deep samples (up to 0.8 m
depth), we compared three different methods used for SOC lability
assessment. We explored whether respired-C isolated by a 10-week
laboratory soil respiration test, POM-C isolated by a physical SOC
fractionation scheme (particle-size > 50 pm and d < 1.6 g cm(-3)) and
several RE6 parameters were comparable and how they correlated.As
expected, respired-C (mg CO2-C.g(-1) SOC) and POM-C (% of total SOC)
fractions strongly decreased with depth. RE6 parameters showed that SOC
from deeper soil layers was also thermally less labile, more oxidized
and H-depleted. Indeed, SOC from deeper soil layers had lower proportion
of thermally labile SOC, higher T50-Hc-pyR (temperature at which 50% of
the pyrolysable hydrocarbons were effectively pyrolyzed) and T50-CO2-OX
(temperature at which 50% of the CO2 gas had evolved during the
oxidation phase), larger oxygen index, and smaller hydrogen index.
Surprisingly, the two classical indicators of the labile SOC pool
(respired-C and POM-C) were only marginally correlated (p = 0.051) and
showed layer-specific correlations. Similarly, respired-C was poorly
correlated to RE6 parameters. Conversely, the POM-C fraction showed a
strong negative correlation with T50-HC-PYR (rho = -0.73) and good
correlations with other RE6 parameters.Our study showed that RE6
parameters were good estimates of the POM-C fraction, which represents a
labile SOC pool with a residence time of ca. a couple decades that is
meaningful regarding SOC stock changes upon modifications in land
management. RE6 thermal analysis could therefore be a fast and
cost-effective alternative to more time-consuming methods used in SOC
pool determination, and may be integrated into soil monitoring networks
to provide high-throughput information on SOC dynamics.

### Use of the USDA National Cooperative Soil Survey Soil Characterization Data to Detect Soil Change: A Cautionary Tale

Authors:
Tomer, MD; James, DE; Schipper, LA; Wills, SA

Source:
*SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL*, 81 (6):1463-1474; NOV-DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Recently, the USDA-NRCS National Cooperative Soil Survey Soil
Characterization Database (NSCD) was reported to provide evidence that
total nitrogen (TN) stocks of agricultural soils have increased across
the Mississippi basin since 1985. Unfortunately, historical changes in
methods used to measure TN were not fully accounted for in that report.
We used NSCD archives to calibrate between wet (pre-1995) and dry
(post-1995) digestion methods used in measuring TN and soil organic
carbon (SOC), then evaluated temporal trends in SOC and TN stocks with
data from 423 Alfisol and 900 Mollisol profiles representing the US Corn
Belt. Data were grouped by moisture regime, farming history (presence of
Ap horizon), and depth (0-20, 20-60, and 60-100 cm). Regressions showed
geographic and textural influences on SOC, and that SOC increased with
time among farmed soils, particularly at 20 to 60 cm. Soil TN was
dependent on SOC, especially at the surface (R-2 > 0.71), and decreasing
TN trends with time were found among farmed soils above 60-cm depth.
Increases in C to N ratios further suggested TN has been slowly
stabilizing within soils of the US Corn Belt. However, C to N ratios
<9.0 were prevalent at 60-100 cm depth (>60% frequency), indicating
large TN stores remain in these soils. An increasing trend in SOC, TN,
and C to N ratios among non-farmed, aquic Mollisols suggested SOC and TN
accumulations in wet soils typically located below croplands. Results
suggest slow improvement in agricultural soils. However, resampling has
not been broadly undertaken for NSCD soil profiles, hence use of this
database to detect soil change should be approached cautiously.







