---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-06-14
modified: 2018-06-14
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #12

* Mapping rootable depth and root zone plant-available water holding capacity of the soil of sub-Saharan Africa
* Accounting for non-stationary variance in geostatistical mapping of soil properties
* Conservation agriculture practices increase soil microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen in agricultural soils: A global meta-analysis










<!--more-->

### Mapping rootable depth and root zone plant-available water holding capacity of the soil of sub-Saharan Africa

Authors:
Leenaars, JGB; Claessens, L; Heuvelink, GBM; Hengla, T; Gonzalez, MR;
van Bussel, LGJ; Guilpart, N; Yang, HS; Cassman, KG

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 324 18-36; AUG 15 2018 

Abstract:
In rainfed crop production, root zone plant-available water holding
capacity (RZ-PAWHC) of the soil has a large influence on crop growth and
the yield response to management inputs such as improved seeds and
fertilisers. However, data are lacking for this parameter in sub-Saharan
Africa (SSA). This study produced the first spatially explicit, coherent
and complete maps of the rootable depth and RZ-PAWHC of soil in SSA. We
compiled georeferenced data from 28,000 soil profiles from SSA, which
were used as input for digital soil mapping (DSM) techniques to produce
soil property maps of SSA. Based on these soil properties, we developed
and parameterised (pedotransfer) functions, rules and criteria to
evaluate soil water retention at field capacity and wilting point, the
soil fine earth fraction from coarse fragments content and, for maize,
the soil rootability (relative to threshold values) and rootable depth.
Maps of these secondary soil properties were derived using the primary
soil property maps as input for the evaluation rules and the results
were aggregated over the rootable depth to obtain a map of RZ-PAWHC,
with a spatial resolution of 1 km(2). The mean RZ-PAWHC for SSA is 74 mm
and the associated average root zone depth is 96 cm. Pearson correlation
between the two is 0.95. RZ-PAWHC proves most limited by the rootable
depth but is also highly sensitive to the definition of field capacity.
The total soil volume of SSA potentially rootable by maize is reduced by
one third (over 10,500 km(3)) due to soil conditions restricting root
zone depth. Of these, 4800 km(3) are due to limited depth of aeration,
which is the factor most severely limiting in terms of extent (km2), and
2500 km(3) due to sodicity which is most severely limiting in terms of
degree (depth in cm). Depth of soil to bedrock reduces the rootable soil
volume by 2500 km(3), aluminium toxicity by 600 km(3), porosity by 120
km(3) and alkalinity by 20 km(3). The accuracy of the map of rootable
depth and thus of RZ-PAWHC could not be validated quantitatively due to
absent data on rootability and rootable depth but is limited by the
accuracy of the primary soil property maps. The methodological framework
is robust and has been operationalised such that the maps can easily be
updated as additional data become available.


### Accounting for non-stationary variance in geostatistical mapping of soil properties

Authors:
Wadoux, AMJC; Brus, DJ; Heuvelink, GBM

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 324 138-147; AUG 15 2018 

Abstract:
Simple and ordinary kriging assume a constant mean and variance of the
soil variable of interest. This assumption is often implausible because
the mean and/or variance are linked to terrain attributes, parent
material or other soil forming factors. In kriging with external drift
(KED) non-stationarity in the mean is accounted for by modelling it as a
linear combination of covariates. In this study, we applied an extension
of KED that also accounts for non-stationary variance. Similar to the
mean, the variance is modelled as a linear combination of covariates.
The set of covariates for the mean may differ from the set for the
variance. The best combinations of covariates for the mean and variance
are selected using Akaike's information criterion. Model parameters of
the selected model are then estimated by differential evolution using
the Restricted Maximum Likelihood (REML) in the objective function. The
methodology was tested in a small area of the Hunter Valley, NSW
Australia, where samples from a fine grid with gamma K measurements were
treated as measurements of the variable of interest. Terrain attributes
were used as covariates. Both a non-stationary variance and a stationary
variance model were calibrated. The mean squared prediction errors of
the two models were somewhat comparable. However, the uncertainty about
the predictions was much better quantified by the non-stationary
variance model, as indicated by the mean and median of the standardized
squared prediction error and by accuracy plots. We conclude that the non
-stationary variance model is more flexible and better suited for
uncertainty quantification of a mapped soil property. However, parameter
estimation of the non -stationary variance model requires more attention
due to possible singularity of the covariance matrix.

### Conservation agriculture practices increase soil microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen in agricultural soils: A global meta-analysis

Authors:
Li, Y; Chang, SX; Tian, LH; Zhang, QP

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 121 50-58; JUN 2018 

Abstract:
Conservation agriculture through the use of crop residue retention and
no-tillage (NT) has been widely practiced to improve agricultural soil
quality, such as to increase soil organic carbon (C) content and the
microbial population size. However, there has been no quantitative
analysis on the effect of conservation agriculture, particularly in
relation to crop residue retention, on soil microbial biomass C (C-mic)
and nitrogen (N-mic), and the microbial quotient (qMIC,
C-mic-to-organicC ratio), which are frequently used as indicators of
soil health under different agricultural practices. The objective of
this study was to evaluate the influence of conservation agriculture
practices on soil C-mic, N-mic and qMIC on a global scale using
meta-analysis based on data from 96 recent publications. Relative to
conventional tillage (CT) without residue retention, NT without residue
retention (NTRO) increased C-mic by 33% (P < 0.05), while NT with
residue retention (NTR) increased (P < 0.05) C-mic, N-mic and qMIC by
25, 64, and 57%, respectively. Greater C-mic and N-mic were found in the
NT than in the CT treatment, regardless of the soil condition (e.g.,
soil pH and texture), experimental duration, and climate (e.g., mean
annual temperature and precipitation). Particularly, NTR was a promising
conservation agriculture practice to increase C-mic and N-mic in global
farmlands, and NTRO can be an alternate strategy for loam soils in the
subhumid (600-1000 mm mean annual precipitation) region, or under
long-term (> 20 yr) conservation agriculture practices. We conclude that
NTR should be an important strategy that could be used to increase C-mic
and N-mic contents and improve soil quality in global farmlands.




