---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-01-30
modified: 2018-01-30
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #2

* Global patterns of nitrate storage in the vadose zone
* Identifying scale-specific controls of soil organic matter distribution in mountain areas using anisotropy analysis and discrete wavelet transform
* Scale-location specific soil spatial variability: A comparison of continuous wavelet transform and Hilbert-Huang transform
* Stochastic hydro-mechanical stability of vegetated slopes: An integrated copula based framework
* Plant exudates may stabilize or weaken soil depending on species, origin and time
* Multi-year simulation and model calibration of soil moisture and temperature profiles in till soil
* rs-local data-mines information from spectral libraries to improve local calibrations
* Model updating for the classification of different varieties of maize seeds from different years by hyperspectral imaging coupled with a pre-labeling method
* Value of dimensionality reduction for crop differentiation with multi-temporal imagery and machine learning
* Spatial disaggregation of complex Soil Map Units at the regional scale based on soil-landscape relationships


































<!--more-->

### Global patterns of nitrate storage in the vadose zone

Authors:
Ascott, MJ; Gooddy, DC; Wang, L; Stuart, ME; Lewis, MA; Ward, RS;
Binley, AM

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 8 1416-1416; NOV 10 2017 

Abstract:
Global-scale nitrogen budgets developed to quantify anthropogenic
impacts on the nitrogen cycle do not explicitly consider nitrate stored
in the vadose zone. Here we show that the vadose zone is an important
store of nitrate that should be considered in future budgets for
effective policymaking. Using estimates of groundwater depth and nitrate
leaching for 1900-2000, we quantify the peak global storage of nitrate
in the vadose zone as 605-1814 Teragrams (Tg). Estimates of nitrate
storage are validated using basin-scale and national-scale estimates and
observed groundwater nitrate data. Nitrate storage per unit area is
greatest in North America, China and Europe where there are thick vadose
zones and extensive historical agriculture. In these areas, long travel
times in the vadose zone may delay the impact of changes in agricultural
practices on groundwater quality. We argue that in these areas use of
conventional nitrogen budget approaches is inappropriate.


### Identifying scale-specific controls of soil organic matter distribution in mountain areas using anisotropy analysis and discrete wavelet transform

Authors:
Guo, YD; Zhao, RY; Zeng, YNA; Shi, Z; Zhou, Q

Source:
*CATENA*, 160 1-9; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Soil organic matter (SOM) is an important index to evaluate soil
fertility. Knowing the spatial distribution of SOM and its controlling
factors at different scales is basic to sustainable farmland management.
The variability was explored mostly in plain farmlands or at small
scales in previous studies. In the present study, combined with
anisotropy analysis (AA) and discrete wavelet transform (DWT), we
examined the spatial variability of SOM and its controlling factors at
various scales in a mountainous area. Transect with dominant directions
(major axis and minor axis) of SOM variability was extracted using AA
and then the scale-specific variability was examined using DWT. Dominant
factors of SOM variability at different scales were identified using
correlation coefficients between SOM at different scales and various
soil environmental factors. The results showed that the major axis along
which SOM varied the most was 24 south by west, consistent with the
strike of Wuling Mountains. The minor axis was perpendicular to the
major axis direction. DWT separated the SOM variations into nine scale
components (eight details, D1 through D8, and one approximation, A8)
along the major axis and into eight scale components (seven details, Dl
through D7, and one approximation, A7) along minor axis. The
largest-scale component (A8 in major axis and A7 in minor axis)
explained the most variance of SOM along both axes, accounting for half
of the total variance. Compared with the original SOM before separation
of scale components (undecomposed SOM), the scale components showed
significant correlation with environmental factors. Both elevation and
mean annual precipitation had positive correlation with SOM at large
scales. However, there was a negative correlation between SOM and mean
annual temperature. This indicates that the topography and local climate
may have a stronger influence in controlling SOM spatial distribution in
mountain regions. The relationship provides important information on
environmental covariate selection in mapping soil resource. The
combination of AA and DWT shows promise quantifying SOM spatial
distribution and its control factors at different scales in mountainous
areas.

### Scale-location specific soil spatial variability: A comparison of continuous wavelet transform and Hilbert-Huang transform

Authors:
Biswas, A

Source:
*CATENA*, 160 24-31; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Soil spatial variability has become the rule rather than the exception;
it is the consequence of spatial dependence, periodicity,
nonstationarity, and nonlinearity. The continuous wavelet transform
(CWT) has been extremely useful in revealing scale-and location-specific
information of nonstationary soil spatial variation. The Hilbert Huang
transform (HHT) has also been used in soil science to reveal scales and
locations of variations in soil properties. These variations may be
controlled by the underlying soil processes that can also be represented
using a linear or nonlinear equation/function. The objective of this
manuscript was to compare the inherent strengths and weaknesses of CWT
and HHT in quantifying scale-and location-specific soil spatial
variation. Examples using four simulated spatial series (stationary
linear, stationary nonlinear, nonstationary linear, and nonstationary
nonlinear) and two real world measurements of soil properties (organic
carbon and soil water storage) were used to compare the methods. With
its algorithmic basis, HHT identified the scale components present in
the spatial series more flexibly, while the redundancy in CWT identified
a diffuse band of scales as it is based on an underlying mathematical
model. Additionally, the CWT identified variations that were biased
towards large scales. The HHT used a more flexible basis for
interpreting real data and could deal with nonlinear issues, while CWT
could not. A similar result was also observed for soil organic carbon
and soil water storage. Both methods could produce certain levels of
information but the choice should be made based on the type of
information that is required while taking into consideration the
underlying assumptions. For example, to quantify the scale-and
location-specific spatial variability of soil properties as controlled
by soil processes which can be represented by a nonlinear equation, one
achieves benefits from using HHT rather than CWT. In this case study,
HHT showed superior performance in identifying scales and locations of
soil spatial variability over CWT. In this study, HHT is compared with
CWT only and needs further comparison with other types of wavelet
analysis.

### Stochastic hydro-mechanical stability of vegetated slopes: An integrated copula based framework

Authors:
Das, GK; Hazra, B; Garg, A; Ng, CWW

Source:
*CATENA*, 160 124-133; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
Vegetation induces considerable uncertainties in the hydrological
(suction, psi) and mechanical (cohesion, c and frictional angle, phi)
parameters of soil, due to which, it is essential that the stability of
vegetated slope is evaluated in a probabilistic framework. Moreover,
from previous studies, it has been found that the mechanical parameters
of soil share inherent correlation, which has a profound effect on slope
stability. The combined effect of stochastic hydro-mechanical parameters
is not well studied, more so in vegetated slopes. This study
demonstrates a probabilistic approach to analyse the stability of
vegetated slopes, under the combined effect of univariate suction and
bivariate c - phi. Data corresponding to suction and the mechanical
parameters, are obtained from a field monitoring programme, conducted on
a homogeneously compacted vegetated slope (adopted from previous
literature). The suction responses are probabilistically evaluated by
estimating their probability distribution functions, and the dependence
structure of c and phi is established via copula theory. Treed slopes
are found to be more stable than grassed and bare (i.e. sparsely
vegetated) slopes, since suction induced in treed soil is relatively
higher. The probability of failure for vegetated slopes decreases
substantially with increase in magnitude of c - phi correlation, thereby
yielding more conservative estimates than the uncorrelated case.

### Plant exudates may stabilize or weaken soil depending on species, origin and time

Authors:
Naveed, M; Brown, LK; Raffan, AC; George, TS; Bengough, AG; Roose, T;
Sinclair, I; Koebernick, N; Cooper, L; Hackett, CA; Hallett, PD

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (6):806-816; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
We hypothesized that plant exudates could either gel or disperse soil
depending on their chemical characteristics. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.
cv. Optic) and maize (Zea mays L. cv. Freya) root exudates were
collected using an aerated hydroponic method and compared with chia
(Salvia hispanica L.) seed exudate, a commonly used root exudate
analogue. Sandy loam soil was passed through a 500-m mesh and treated
with each exudate at a concentration of 4.6 mg exudate g(-1) dry soil.
Two sets of soil samples were prepared. One set of treated soil samples
was maintained at 4 degrees C to suppress microbial processes. To
characterize the effect of decomposition, the second set of samples was
incubated at 16 degrees C for 2 weeks at -30 kPa matric potential. Gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of the exudates showed
that barley had the largest organic acid content and chia the largest
content of sugars (polysaccharide-derived or free), and maize was in
between barley and chia. Yield stress of amended soil samples was
measured by an oscillatory strain sweep test with a cone plate
rheometer. When microbial decomposition was suppressed at 4 degrees C,
yield stress increased 20-fold for chia seed exudate and twofold for
maize root exudate compared with the control, whereas for barley root
exudate decreased to half. The yield stress after 2 weeks of incubation
compared with soil with suppressed microbial decomposition increased by
85% for barley root exudate, but for chia and maize it decreased by 87
and 54%, respectively. Barley root exudation might therefore disperse
soil and this could facilitate nutrient release. The maize root and chia
seed exudates gelled soil, which could create a more stable soil
structure around roots or seeds.Highlights Rheological measurements
quantified physical behaviour of plant exudates and effect on soil
stabilization. Barley root exudates dispersed soil, which could release
nutrients and carbon. Maize root and chia seed exudates had a
stabilizing effect on soil. Physical engineering of soil in contact with
plant roots depends on the nature and origin of exudates.

### Multi-year simulation and model calibration of soil moisture and temperature profiles in till soil

Authors:
Okkonen, J; Ala-Aho, P; Hanninen, P; Hayashi, M; Sutinen, R; Liwata, P

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (6):829-839; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
In Nordic regions water infiltration into soil is controlled by soil
moisture content and frozen soil conditions, which are regulated by soil
temperature. For long-term model predictions of the effects of climate
change, models need to be tested with long-term data to assess model
sensitivity to parameter uncertainties under both typical and
exceptional conditions. Ten-year (2002-2011) daily soil moisture and
temperature data at different depths in glacial till soils in central
Finland were used to assess the sensitivity of a coupled heat and water
transfer model, COUP, to model parameters. The model was most sensitive
to the parameters controlling snow accumulation and melt, the thermal
conductivity of frozen soil and soil water retention characteristics.
Observed time series for soil temperature and moisture at different
depths were matched reasonably well by model simulations, although the
model performance with respect to moisture dynamics in the topsoil was
relatively poor. The model was not able to simulate accurately
exceptional winter conditions, such as mid-winter snowmelt events. This
study showed that the main characteristics of long-term variation in
soil temperature for till-derived soil in a cold climate can be resolved
by a coupled water and heat transport model. Better characterization of
infiltration in cold climates would require measurement of water fluxes,
and soil frost occurrence and penetration.Highlights Ten-year soil
temperature and moisture observations are predicted with coupled heat
and water model. Snow processes and soil thermal and water retention
properties proved critical in our simulations. Exceptional winter
conditions pose a challenge in parameterization of the model. Studies
measuring water fluxes and soil frost occurrence are needed for advances
in modelling.

### rs-local data-mines information from spectral libraries to improve local calibrations

Authors:
Lobsey, CR; Viscarra Rossel, RA; Roudier, P; Hedley, CB

Source:
*EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE*, 68 (6):840-852; NOV 2017 

Abstract:
Diffuse reflectance spectroscopy in the visible-near infrared (vis-NIR)
and mid infrared (mid-IR) can be used to estimate soil properties, such
as organic carbon (C) content. Compared with conventional laboratory
methods, it enables practical and inexpensive measurements at finer
spatial and temporal resolutions, which are needed to improve the
assessment and management of soil and the environment. Measurements of
soil properties with spectra require empirical calibration and soil
spectral libraries (SSL) have been developed for this purpose at the
regional, continental and global scales. Calibrations derived with these
SSLs, however, are often shown to predict poorly at local sites. Here we
present a new method, rs-local, that uses a small representative set of
site-specific (or local') data and re-sampling techniques to select a
subset of data from a large vis-NIR SSL to improve calibrations at the
site. We demonstrate the implementation of rs-local by estimating soil
organic C in two fields with different soil types, one in Australia and
one in New Zealand. We found that with as few as 12 to 20 site-specific
samples and the SSL, training datasets derived with rs-local could
accurately predict soil organic C concentrations. Predictions with the
rs-local data were comparable to, or better than those made with
site-specific calibrations with up to 300 samples. Our method
outperformed other published local' spectroscopic techniques that we
tested. Thus, rs-local can effectively improve both the accuracy and
financial viability of soil spectroscopy.Highlights We describe a new
algorithm (rs-local) for site-specific calibration using existing
spectral libraries. rs-local is a data driven method that makes no
assumptions on spectral or sample similarities. rs-local improved the
accuracy of soil organic carbon estimates using spectroscopy. rs-local
improves the economic viability of soil spectroscopy.

### Model updating for the classification of different varieties of maize seeds from different years by hyperspectral imaging coupled with a pre-labeling method

Authors:
Guo, DS; Zhu, QB; Huang, M; Guo, Y; Qin, JW

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 142 1-8; A NOV 2017 

Abstract:
The use of hyperspectral imaging technology combined with chemometrics
is an effective nondestructive method for sorting seed varieties.
However, the performance of the method is susceptible to the influence
of time and depends on the training set used in the modeling process.
The accuracy of classification models maybe deteriorate when they are
used to differentiate the same variety of seeds harvested in different
years, due to new variances in the test set are introduced by changes in
the cultivation conditions, soil environmental conditions and climatic
changes from one year to another. To maintain the accuracy and
robustness of model, a model-updating algorithm for differentiating
maize seed varieties from different years based on hyperspectral imaging
coupled with a pre-labeling method was proposed in this work. The
pre-label of each unlabeled sample was obtained using the original
classification models developed by the least squares support vector
machine classifier. The representative unlabeled samples, which had
reliable pre-labels, were selected for updating classification models
based on Pearson correlation coefficients. After model updating, the
average classification accuracies were improved by 8.9%, 35.8% and 9.6%,
compared with those of non-updated models for three test sets,
respectively. This shows the effectiveness of the proposed method for
classifying maize seeds of different years.

### Value of dimensionality reduction for crop differentiation with multi-temporal imagery and machine learning

Authors:
Gilbertson, JK; van Niekerk, A

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 142 50-58; A NOV 2017 

Abstract:
This study evaluates the use of automated and manual feature selection -
prior to machine learning - for the differentiation of crops in a
Mediterranean climate (Western Cape, South Africa). Five Landsat-8
images covering the different crop class phenological stages were
acquired and used to generate a range of spectral and textural features
within an object-based image analysis (OBIA) paradigm. The features were
used as input to decision trees (DTs), k-nearest neighbour (k-NN),
support vector machine (SVM), and random forest (RF) supervised
classifiers. Testing was done by performing classifications (using all
spatial variables) and then incrementally reducing the feature counts
(based on importance allocated to features by filters), feature
extraction, and manual (semantic) feature selection. Classification and
regression trees (CART) and RF were used as methods to filter feature
selection. Feature-extraction methods employed include principal
components analysis (PCA) and Tasselled cap transformation (TCT). The
classification results were analysed by comparing the overall accuracies
and kappa coefficients of each scenario, while McNemar's test was used
to assess the statistical significance of differences in accuracies
among classifiers. Feature selection was found to improve the overall
accuracies of the DT, k-NN, and RF classifications, but reduced the
accuracy of SVM. The results showed that SVM with feature extraction
(PCA) on individual image dates produced the most accurate
classification (96.2%). Semantic groupings of features for
classification also revealed that using the image bands and indices is
not sufficient for crop classification, and that additional features are
needed. The accuracy differences of the classifiers were, however, not
statistically significant, which suggests that, although dimensionality
reduction can improve crop differentiation when multi-temporal Landsat-8
imagery is used, it had a marginal effect on the results. For
operational crop-type classification in the study area (and similar
regions), we conclude that the SVM algorithm can be applied to the full
set of features generated.

### Spatial disaggregation of complex Soil Map Units at the regional scale based on soil-landscape relationships

Authors:
Vincent, S; Lemercier, B; Berthier, L; Walter, C

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 311 130-142; FEB 1 2018 

Abstract:
Digital soil mapping is becoming a powerful tool to increase the spatial
detail of soil information over large areas, which is essential to
address agronomic and environmental issues. When it exists, information
about soil is often sparse or available at a coarser resolution than
required. The spatial distribution of soil at the regional scale is
usually represented as a set of polygons defining Soil Map Units (SMUs),
each including several Soil Type Units (STUs), which are not spatially
delineated but semantically described in a database. Delineation of STUs
within SMUs, i.e. spatial disaggregation of SMU, should improve the
precision of soil information derived from legacy and ancillary data.
The aim of this study was to predict STUs by spatially disaggregating
SMUs through a decision-tree approach that considered expert knowledge
about soil-landscape relationships embedded in soil databases. In a
27,376 km(2) study area in north-western France (Brittany), 434 SMUs
were delineated at 1:250,000 scale, and 320 STUs, their relative area in
the SMUs, and their geomorphological and geological contexts were
described. A calibration dataset of points was established using
stratified random sampling,(n = 352,188). To retrieve soil-landscape
relationships, expert rules for soil distribution defined by soil
surveyors and based on topography, parent material and waterlogging
index were considered in order to allocate an STU to 83% of the
calibration dataset. The calibration dataset and covariates (i.e.
pedological, geological and terrain attributes; land use; airborne
gamma-ray spectrometry) were then used to: build and extrapolate the
decision tree using the C.5 algorithm in DSMART software. Several
iterations were performed, providing a probability of occurrence of each
possible STU within the study area. External validation was perforined
by comparing predictions of the disaggregation procedure to available
soil maps at scales of 1:25,000 or 1:50,000 and observed profiles.
Overall accuracies ranged from 41 to 72%, depending on the validation
method.(per pixel vs. 3 x 3 windows of pixels, per STU vs. STU grouped
by semantic proximity (n = 204)). Introducing expert rules based on
soil-landscape relationships to allocate STUs to calibration samples
enabled production of a soil"map with clear spatial structures, yielding
expected spatial patterns of soil organisation. Future work notably
concerns estimating soil properties at multiple depths deriving from STU
predictions, according to the GlobalSoilMap project









