---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-03-13
modified: 2018-03-13
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #5

* A novel approach for vegetation classification using UAV-based hyperspectral imaging
* Proximal spectral sensing in pedological assessments: vis-NIR spectra for soil classification based on weathering and pedogenesis
* Spatial organization of bacterial populations in response to oxygen and carbon counter-gradients in pore networks
* Data synthesis of carbon distribution in particle size fractions of tropical soils: Implications for soil carbon storage potential in croplands.
* Mapping the probability of ripened subsoils using Bayesian logistic regression with informative priors
* Linking soil organic matter thermal stability with contents of clay, bound water, organic carbon and nitrogen
* Soil structure as an indicator of soil functions: A review
* Stabilization of dispersive soils by means of biological calcite precipitation
* Spatial evaluation of Indonesia's 2015 fire-affected area and estimated carbon emissions using Sentinel-1
* Frontiers in alley cropping: Transformative solutions for temperate agriculture
* Soil carbon cycling proxies: Understanding their critical role in predicting climate change feedbacks
t
* Contribution of crop model structure, parameters and climate projections to uncertainty in climate change impact assessments





















<!--more-->

### A novel approach for vegetation classification using UAV-based hyperspectral imaging

Authors:
Ishida, T; Kurihara, J; Viray, FA; Namuco, SB; Paringit, EC; Perez, GJ;
Takahashi, Y; Marciano, JJ

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 144 80-85; JAN 2018 

Abstract:
The use of unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)-based spectral imaging offers
considerable advantages in high-resolution remote-sensing applications.
However, the number of sensors mountable on a UAV is limited, and
selecting the optimal combination of spectral bands is complex but
crucial for conventional UAV-based multi spectral imaging systems. To
overcome these limitations, we adopted a liquid crystal tunable filter
(LCTF), which can transmit selected wavelengths without the need to
exchange optical filters. For calibration and validation of the
LCTF-based hyperspectral imaging system, a field campaign was conducted
in the Philippines during March 28-April 3, 2016. In this campaign,
UAV-based hyperspectral imaging was performed in several vegetated
areas, and the spectral reflectances of 14 different ground objects were
measured. Additionally, the machine learning (ML) approach using a
support vector machine (SVM) model was applied to the obtained dataset,
and a high resolution classification map was then produced from the
aerial hyperspectral images. The results clearly showed that a large
amount of misclassification occurred in shaded areas due to the
difference in spectral reflectance between sunlit and shaded areas. It
was also found that the classification accuracy was drastically improved
by training the SVM model with both sunlit and shaded spectral data. As
a result, we achieved a classification accuracy of 94.5% in vegetated
areas.


### Proximal spectral sensing in pedological assessments: vis-NIR spectra for soil classification based on weathering and pedogenesis

Authors:
Terra, FS; Dematte, JAM; Rossel, RAV

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 318 123-136; MAY 15 2018 

Abstract:
Assessments of soils by reflectance spectroscopy have potential to
facilitate and optimize soil survey, classification, and mapping of
large areas. Visible and near-infrared (vis-NIR) spectra have been
moderately used in pedological studies regarding characterization of
soil samples and profiles, weathering and pedogenetic alterations along
toposequences and landscapes, and soil classification. Therefore, there
still is a lack of information about vis-NIR spectral pedology. For soil
samples, our aims were to characterize the effects of physical,
chemical, and mineralogical properties on vis-NIR soil spectral
behavior, and to evaluate its potentiality in clustering 1259 soil
samples according to weathering levels. For soil profiles, our aims were
to evaluate the influence of pedogenesis in spectral behavior of some
typical Brazilian soil classes, and to discriminate them by integrating
proximal sensing and distance metrics. Continuum removed spectral data
were transformed by Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and Fuzzy
K-means algorithm and taxonomic distance were applied to cluster soil
samples and profiles, respectively. Differences in reflectance intensity
and absorption features caused by weathering intensification enabled to
distinguish soil samples regarding similarity of particle size
distribution, mineralogy, and some chemical properties. Soil formation
processes, in particular, lessivage, dessilication, and ferralization
similarly affected the spectral behavior soil profiles considering
changes in depth caused by redistribution of soil properties by
horizons. A coherent discrimination of soil profiles was possible by
combining spectral data and pedological distance metrics where 30% of
the soil classes could be individually clustered as follow: Ferralsol,
Nitisol, Acrisol, Lixisol, Arenosol, Gleysol, Cambisol, and Leptsol.
vis-NIR spectral data enabled a coherent grouping of Ferralsol profiles
with different contents of clay and iron oxides. vis-NIR reflectance
spectroscopy is presented here as a useful and reliable tool for direct
applications in pedological assessments, in particular, soil survey and
classification.

### Spatial organization of bacterial populations in response to oxygen and carbon counter-gradients in pore networks

Authors:
Borer, B; Tecon, R; Or, D

Source:
*NATURE COMMUNICATIONS*, 9 769-769; FEB 22 2018 

Abstract:
Microbial activity in soil is spatially heterogeneous often forming
spatial hotspots that contribute disproportionally to biogeochemical
processes. Evidence suggests that bacterial spatial organization
contributes to the persistence of anoxic hotspots even in unsaturated
soils. Such processes are difficult to observe in situ at the
microscale, hence mechanisms and time scales relevant for bacterial
spatial organization remain largely qualitative. Here we develop an
experimental platform based on glass-etched micrometric pore networks
that mimics resource gradients postulated in soil aggregates to observe
spatial organization of fluorescently tagged aerobic and facultative
anaerobic bacteria. Two initially intermixed bacterial species,
Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas veronii, segregate into preferential
regions promoted by opposing gradients of carbon and oxygen (such
persistent coexistence is not possible in well-mixed cultures). The
study provides quantitative visualization and modeling of bacterial
spatial organization within aggregate-like hotspots, a key step towards
developing a mechanistic representation of bacterial community
organization in soil pores.

### Data synthesis of carbon distribution in particle size fractions of tropical soils: Implications for soil carbon storage potential in croplands

Authors:
Fujisaki, K; Chapuis-Lardy, L; Albrecht, A; Razafimbelo, T; Chotte, JL;
Chevallier, T

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 313 41-51; MAR 1 2018 

Abstract:
Organic carbon saturation in soils refers to the theoretical maximum
soil organic carbon (SOC) that can be associated with and stabilized on
fine silt plus clay particles (F < 20 mu m). We reviewed the literature
dealing with SOC distribution between soil fractions to evaluate carbon
saturation for tropical soils and estimate the C storage potential of
cropland.We collected 258 data points on SOC distribution between soil
fractions in tropical soils from 84 sites in 27 countries. We used
boundary line analysis to estimate the maximum stabilized SOC depending
on soil group, clay type and land use. SOC storage potential was
calculated as the SOC saturation deficit, the difference between the
actual SOC content and the maximum stabilized SOC content.We found that
the maximum SOC in the fine fraction of tropical soils (53 g C kg(-1)
fine fraction) was lower than previous assessments of global SOC storage
scale based mainly on temperate soils. The F < 20 mu m fractions were
closer to SOC saturation in forest soils than in croplands. The cropland
had a higher soil C storage potential, but changing agricultural
management practices did not fill the deficit that is calculated using
the whole dataset. The deficit was much lower when it was estimated with
grassland or cropland data only: this provides a more realistic estimate
for SOC storage potential for croplands.The SOC content in the coarser
fraction (F > 50 mu m) did not depend on soil texture and significantly
contributed to the total SOC, especially in sandy soils (41.3%). This is
affected by changes in agricultural management practices. We concluded
that, although the aim of increasing SOC stabilization originally arose
from climate change mitigation strategies, it must now be more viewed as
being more relevant to food security and local adaptation to climate
change.

### Mapping the probability of ripened subsoils using Bayesian logistic regression with informative priors

Authors:
Steinbuch, L; Brus, DJ; Heuvelink, GBM

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 316 56-69; APR 15 2018 

Abstract:
One of the first soil forming processes in marine and fluviatile clay
soils is ripening, the irreversible change of physical and chemical soil
properties, especially consistency, under influence of air. We used
Bayesian binomial logistic regression (BBLR) to update the map showing
unripened subsoils for a reclamation area in the west of The
Netherlands. Similar to conventional binomial logistic regression (BLR),
in BBLR the binary target variable (the subsoil is ripened or unripened)
is modelled by a Bernoulli distribution. The logit transform of the
probability of success' parameter of the Bernoulli distribution was
modelled as a linear combination of the covariates soil type, freeboard
(the desired water level in the ditches, compared to surface level) and
mean lowest groundwater table. To capture all available information,
Bayesian statistics combines legacy data summarized in a 'prior'
probability distribution for the regression coefficients with actual
observations. Our research focused on quantifying the influence of
priors with different information levels, in combination with different
sample sizes, on the resulting parameters and maps. We combined
subsamples of different size (ranging from 5% to 50% of the original
dataset of 676 observations) with priors representing different levels
of trust in legacy data and investigated the effect of sample size and
prior distribution on map accuracy. The resulting posterior parameter
distributions, calculated by Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, vary
in centrality as well as in dispersion, especially for the smaller
datasets. More informative priors decreased dispersion and pushed
posterior central values towards prior central values. Interestingly,
the resulting probability maps were almost similar. However, the
associated uncertainty maps were different: a more informative prior
decreased prediction uncertainty. When using the 'overall accuracy'
validation metric, we found an optimal value for the prior information
level, indicating that the standard deviation of the legacy data
regression parameters should be multiplied by 10. This effect is only
detectable for smaller datasets. The Area Under Curve validation
statistic did not provide a meaningful optimal multiplier for the
standard deviation. Bayesian binomial logistic regression proved to be a
flexible mapping tool but the accuracy gain compared to conventional
logistic regression was marginal and may not outweigh the extra
modelling and computing effort.


### Linking soil organic matter thermal stability with contents of clay, bound water, organic carbon and nitrogen

Authors:
Kucerik, J; Tokarski, D; Demyan, MS; Merbach, I; Siewert, C

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 316 38-46; APR 15 2018 

Abstract:
Thermogravimetry is a technique measuring mass change during programmed
heating. In soil analysis, it is used for determination of content of
volatile fractions, thermally labile and stable fractions of soil
organic matter and minerals. One method of data analysis uses the
determination of mass losses in 10 degrees C temperature areas. In the
past, their mutual correlation revealed several larger temperature areas
of mass losses, which appeared to be universal for all types of soils
equilibrated at the same relative humidity. However, it is unclear if
mass losses in these temperature areas are connected with biogeochemical
functions or processes in soil. In this work, using data from > 300
soils of different types, geographical origin, and land uses we
demonstrate their linear correlation with content of organic C, total N
and clay content and biological activity or their combinations. In
particular, the results showed that mass losses between 200 and 300
degrees C, which is related to thermally labile fraction, correlates
best with total organic C and less with total organic N. From 300 to 450
degrees C represents a more stabilized soil organic matter pool and can
be best described by either by C or N contents. Mass loss 450-550
degrees C correlates strongly with clay content, which suggests a
connection to organo-clay complexes. The low temperature interval of
30-200 degrees C, which corresponded to weakly and strongly bound water
showed a strong connection with clay content, but a weaker connection to
microbial activity. The developed equations were corrected and verified
using additional soil sample sets. The correlations along with their
universal applicability lead to conclusion about the possible connection
of mass losses in these temperature areas to, still unknown,
biogeochemical soil functions. The obtained equations may represent a
new approach of rapid and universally applicable "mathematical"
fractionation requiring only contents of soil organic carbon, total
nitrogen, clay and water in soil equilibrated at 76% relative humidity.

### Soil structure as an indicator of soil functions: A review

Authors:
Rabot, E; Wiesmeier, M; Schluter, S; Vogel, HJ

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 314 122-137; MAR 15 2018 

Abstract:
Since many processes in soil are highly sensitive to soil structure,
this review intends to evaluate the potential of observable soil
structural attributes to be used in the assessment of soil functions. We
focus on the biomass production, storage and filtering of water, storage
and recycling of nutrients, carbon storage, habitat for biological
activity, and physical stability and support. A selection of frequently
used soil structural properties are analyzed and discussed from a
methodological point of view and with respect to their relevance to soil
functions. These are properties extracted from soil profile description,
visual soil assessment, aggregate size and stability analysis, bulk
density, mercury porosimetry, water retention curve, gas adsorption, and
imaging techniques. We highlight the greater relevance of the pore
network characterization as compared to the aggregate perspective. We
identify porosity, macroporosity, pore distances, and pore connectivity
derived from imaging techniques as being the most relevant indicators
for several soil functions. Since imaging techniques are not widely
accessible, we suggest using this technique to build up an open access
"soil structure library" for a large range of soil types, which could
form the basis to relate more easily available measures to pore
structural attributes in a site-specific way (i.e., taking into account
texture, soil organic matter content, etc.).

### Stabilization of dispersive soils by means of biological calcite precipitation

Authors:
Moravej, S; Habibagahi, G; Nikooee, E; Niazi, A

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 315 130-137; APR 1 2018 

Abstract:
Stabilization of dispersive soils is of great importance and has been
looked into in various studies across the globe. In this study, the
biological soil stabilization as a novel method has been investigated.
In order to improve the erodibility resistance of dispersive soil
samples, the bacteria Bacillus sphaericus has been employed. In this
research, we focus on the improvements induced in dispersive soils as a
result of microbial calcite precipitation and furthermore, the
controlling factors are looked into. Pinhole experiments are used to
investigate dispersivity of laboratory-made dispersive soil samples.
Soil samples before and after biological stabilization have been
carefully tested to determine their level of dispersivity. Factors such
as curing time, as well as bacterial cell density, precipitating agent
concentration, and temperature have been examined. The test results
demonstrated that microbial calcite precipitation is a promising
technique for stabilizing dispersive soils. The pH-decrease during
microbial activity, and subsequently the decrease in the double layer
thickness, as well as stabilization of exchangeable sodium ions were
proposed to be major mechanisms contributing to the observed reduction
in erosion potential of the soil samples. Furthermore,
microbially-induced calcite precipitation results in further bonding
which reduces erodibility potential of the soil samples.

### Spatial evaluation of Indonesia's 2015 fire-affected area and estimated carbon emissions using Sentinel-1

Authors:
Lohberger, S; Stangel, M; Atwood, EC; Siegert, F

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (2):644-654; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Fires raged once again across Indonesia in the latter half of 2015,
creating a state of emergency due to poisonous smoke and haze across
Southeast Asia as well as incurring great financial costs to the
government. A strong El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) led to drought
in many parts of Indonesia, resulting in elevated fire occurrence
comparable with the previous catastrophic event in 1997/1998. Synthetic
Aperture Radar (SAR) data promise to provide improved detection of land
use and land cover changes in the tropics as compared to methodologies
dependent upon cloud- and haze-free images. This study presents the
first spatially explicit estimates of burned area across Sumatra,
Kalimantan, and West Papua based on high-resolution Sentinel-1A SAR
imagery. Here, we show that 4,604,569 hectares (ha) were burned during
the 2015 fire season (overall accuracy 84%), and compare this with other
existing operational burned area products (MCD64, GFED4.0, GFED4.1s).
Intersection of burned area with fine-scale land cover and peat layer
maps indicates that 0.89gigatons carbon dioxide equivalents (GtCO(2)e)
were released through the fire event. This result is compared to other
estimates based on nonspatially explicit thermal anomaly measurements or
atmospheric monitoring. Using freely available SAR C-band data from the
Sentinel mission, we argue that the presented methodology is able to
quickly and precisely detect burned areas, supporting improvement in
fire control management as well as enhancing accuracy of emissions
estimation.


### Frontiers in alley cropping: Transformative solutions for temperate agriculture

Authors:
Wolz, KJ; Lovell, ST; Branham, BE; Eddy, WC; Keeley, K; Revord, RS;
Wander, MM; Yang, WH; DeLucia, EH

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (3):883-894; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
Annual row crops dominate agriculture around the world and have
considerable negative environmental impacts, including significant
greenhouse gas emissions. Transformative land-use solutions are
necessary to mitigate climate change and restore critical ecosystem
services. Alley cropping (AC)-the integration of trees with crops-is an
agroforestry practice that has been studied as a transformative,
multifunctional land-use solution. In the temperate zone, AC has strong
potential for climate change mitigation through direct emissions
reductions and increases in land-use efficiency via overyielding
compared to trees and crops grown separately. In addition, AC provides
climate change adaptation potential and ecological benefits by buffering
alley crops to weather extremes, diversifying income to hedge financial
risk, increasing biodiversity, reducing soil erosion, and improving
nutrient- and water-use efficiency. The scope of temperate AC research
and application has been largely limited to simple systems that combine
one timber tree species with an annual grain. We propose two frontiers
in temperate AC that expand this scope and could transform its
climate-related benefits: (i) diversification via woody polyculture and
(ii) expanded use of tree crops for food and fodder. While AC is ready
now for implementation on marginal lands, we discuss key considerations
that could enhance the scalability of the two proposed frontiers and
catalyze widespread adoption.


### Soil carbon cycling proxies: Understanding their critical role in predicting climate change feedbacks

Authors:
Bailey, VL; Bond-Lamberty, B; DeAngelis, K; Grandy, AS; Hawkes, CV;
Heckman, K; Lajtha, K; Phillips, RP; Sulman, BN; Todd-Brown, KEO;
Wallenstein, MD

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (3):895-905; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
The complexity of processes and interactions that drive soil C dynamics
necessitate the use of proxy variables to represent soil characteristics
that cannot be directly measured (correlative proxies), or that
aggregate information about multiple soil characteristics into one
variable (integrative proxies). These proxies have proven useful for
understanding the soil C cycle, which is highly variable in both space
and time, and are now being used to make predictions of the fate and
persistence of C under future climate scenarios. However, the C pools
and processes that proxies represent must be thoughtfully considered in
order to minimize uncertainties in empirical understanding. This is
necessary to capture the full value of a proxy in model parameters and
in model outcomes. Here, we provide specific examples of proxy variables
that could improve decision-making, and modeling skill, while also
encouraging continued work on their mechanistic underpinnings. We
explore the use of three common soil proxies used to study soil C
cycling: metabolic quotient, clay content, and physical fractionation.
We also consider how emerging data types, such as genome-sequence data,
can serve as proxies for microbial community activities. By examining
some broad assumptions in soil C cycling with the proxies already in
use, we can develop new hypotheses and specify criteria for new and
needed proxies.


### Contribution of crop model structure, parameters and climate projections to uncertainty in climate change impact assessments

Authors:
Tao, FL; Rotter, RP; Palosuo, T; Diaz-Ambrona, CGH; Minguez, MI;
Semenov, MA; Kersebaum, KC; Nendel, C; Specka, X; Hoffmann, H; Ewert, F;
Dambreville, A; Martre, P; Rodriguez, L; Ruiz-Ramos, M; Gaiser, T; Hohn,
JG; Salo, T; Ferrise, R; Bindi, M; Cammarano, D; Schulman, AH

Source:
*GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY*, 24 (3):1291-1307; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
Climate change impact assessments are plagued with uncertainties from
many sources, such as climate projections or the inadequacies in
structure and parameters of the impact model. Previous studies tried to
account for the uncertainty from one or two of these. Here, we developed
a triple-ensemble probabilistic assessment using seven crop models,
multiple sets of model parameters and eight contrasting climate
projections together to comprehensively account for uncertainties from
these three important sources. We demonstrated the approach in assessing
climate change impact on barley growth and yield at Jokioinen, Finland
in the Boreal climatic zone and Lleida, Spain in the Mediterranean
climatic zone, for the 2050s. We further quantified and compared the
contribution of crop model structure, crop model parameters and climate
projections to the total variance of ensemble output using Analysis of
Variance (ANOVA). Based on the triple-ensemble probabilistic assessment,
the median of simulated yield change was -4% and +16%, and the
probability of decreasing yield was 63% and 31% in the 2050s, at
Jokioinen and Lleida, respectively, relative to 1981-2010. The
contribution of crop model structure to the total variance of ensemble
output was larger than that from downscaled climate projections and
model parameters. The relative contribution of crop model parameters and
downscaled climate projections to the total variance of ensemble output
varied greatly among the seven crop models and between the two sites.
The contribution of downscaled climate projections was on average larger
than that of crop model parameters. This information on the uncertainty
from different sources can be quite useful for model users to decide
where to put the most effort when preparing or choosing models or
parameters for impact analyses. We concluded that the triple-ensemble
probabilistic approach that accounts for the uncertainties from multiple
important sources provide more comprehensive information for quantifying
uncertainties in climate change impact assessments as compared to the
conventional approaches that are deterministic or only account for the
uncertainties from one or two of the uncertainty sources.









