---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-05-17
modified: 2018-05-17
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #11

* Characterizing soil particle sizes using wavelet analysis of microscope images
* A zone-based approach for processing and interpreting variability in multi temporal yield data sets
















































<!--more-->

### Characterizing soil particle sizes using wavelet analysis of microscope images

Authors:
Sudarsan, B; Ji, WJ; Adamchuk, V; Biswas, A

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 148 217-225; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Soil texture (relative proportions of soil particles of varied sizes) is
a fundamental soil physical property affecting almost all other soil
physical properties and processes of agricultural, environmental and
engineering importance. However, characterization of particle sizes in
the laboratory presents a range of challenges in terms of the time,
labor, difficulty and/or cost involved with the analysis. Continuous
wavelet transform (CWT) has been used in characterizing scale-specific
variations in spatial or temporal domain as well as in image analysis.
The objective of this study was to develop a CWT-based computer vision
algorithm to characterize soil particle sizes from digital images
captured with a microscope. A cheap portable microscope with 5 MP camera
and maximum magnification of 200 x was used to develop an image
acquisition system. Three images of air-dried, ground (2 mm) soil
samples were captured in laboratory conditions for each soil sample (56
+ 67 = 123) collected from two agricultural fields (Field26 and Field86)
with highly variable soils. Triplicate in-situ images were also
collected from 67 locations from Field86 after scrapping off surface
residues. The color images were transferred to grey-scale images and the
CWT was performed along the 20 equally-spaced rows and columns. The
total area under the average global wavelet spectrum represented the
total variation in any image. Two fractions of particle sizes; 'coarse'
(diameter between 2.0 mm and 0.05 mm) and 'fine' (diameter < 0.05 mm),
respectively, representing sand and sum of silt and clay were calculated
based on the area under the curve and compared with lab-measured
particle sizes using the hydrometer method. The lab-measured coarse- and
fine-fractions showed strong agreement with the predicted (from image)
fractions. The regression relationship showed the prediction capability
of 87% and 88% for coarse (RMSE 44.7 g kg(-1)) and fine (RMSE 44.7 g
kg(-1)) fractions, respectively for Field26 samples. A similar
prediction was obtained (88% with RMSE 40.2 g kg(-1) for coarse and 88%
with RMSE 40.3 g kg(-1) for fine) for Field86 samples. The efficiency of
the wavelet algorithm shows promise in determining the particle sizes
from an image and the portable nature of the image acquisition system
results in a good proximal soil sensor. In contrast to the laboratory
images, a weak prediction (48% for coarse and 56% for fine) was observed
for the images taken in-situ mainly due to the quality of the images as
they were affected by various field conditions; this requires further
research.

### A zone-based approach for processing and interpreting variability in multi temporal yield data sets

Authors:
Leroux, C; Jones, H; Taylor, J; Clenet, A; Tisseyre, B

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 148 299-308; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
The availability of combine yield monitors since the early 1990's means
that long time-series (10+ years) of yield data are now available in
many arable production systems. Despite this, yield data and maps are
still under exploited and under-valued by professionals in the
agricultural sector. These historical data need to be better considered
and analyzed because they are the only audited means by which growers
and practitioners can assess the spatio-temporal yield response within a
field. When done, time-series of yield maps are mostly processed by
classification-based algorithms to generate spatial and temporal yield
stability maps or to provide yield or management classes. This work
details an alternate segmentation-based methodology to first generate
and then characterize contiguous within-field yield zones from
historical yield data. It operates on the yield data rather than
interpolated yield maps. A seeded region growing algorithm is proposed
that enables both the specification of seeds and zone segmentation in a
multivariate (multi-temporal yield) attribute space. Novel metrics to
assess the yield zoning are proposed that are derived from textural
image analysis. The zoning algorithm and metrics were applied to two
fields with long time-series (6 + years) of yield data in combinable
crops. The two case studies showed that the proposed zone-based approach
was effective in delimitating relevant within-field yield zones. The
generated zones had differing temporal yield responses between
neighbouring zones that were of agronomic significant and interest to
the production systems. As this is a first attempt to apply a
segmentation algorithm to yield data, areas for future development
applications are also proposed.

