---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-02-12
modified: 2018-02-12
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #4

* A review of laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy signal enhancement
* Review of recent UV-Vis and infrared spectroscopy researches on wine detection and discrimination
* Analysis of spatial data with a nested correlation structure
* Generalized additive models with principal component analysis: an application to time series of respiratory disease and air pollution data
* Dynamic Bayesian network inferencing for non-homogeneous complex systems
* CubeSats in Hydrology: Ultrahigh-Resolution Insights Into Vegetation Dynamics and Terrestrial Evaporation
* Evaluating Spatial Variability in Sediment and Phosphorus Concentration-Discharge Relationships Using Bayesian Inference and Self-Organizing Maps
* A Field-Scale Sensor Network Data Set for Monitoring and Modeling the Spatial and Temporal Variation of Soil Water Content in a Dryland Agricultural Field
* Building an exposed soil composite processor (SCMaP) for mapping spatial and temporal characteristics of soils with Landsat imagery (1984-2014)
* ESA CCI Soil Moisture for improved Earth system understanding: State-of-the art and future directions













<!--more-->

### A review of laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy signal enhancement

Authors:
Li, YC; Tian, D; Ding, Y; Yang, G; Liu, K; Wang, CH; Han, X

Source:
*APPLIED SPECTROSCOPY REVIEWS*, 53 (1):1-35; 2018 

Abstract:
A review of the methods of signal enhancement in laser-induced breakdown
spectroscopy (LIBS) is presented. Conventional LIBS suffers from
disadvantages of low sensitivity and high limits of detection compared
with other analytical techniques, such as inductively coupled plasma
mass spectrometry. During the last two decades, various methods have
been applied to LIBS in order to realize highly quantitative and
qualitative analysis. Current approaches include double-pulse
excitation, spatial or magnetic confinement, spark discharge, etc.
Different configurations of experimental setups and conditions are
suggested for the realization of these improved techniques, while
various parameters influence significantly on the enhancement effect.
With the aim to study the laser ablation process and characterize the
effectiveness of each method, several parameters such as plasma volume
and emission intensity are reviewed. Several suggestions are proposed to
explain the mechanism of each enhancement method. These modified
techniques have been applied on various materials and fields.


### Review of recent UV-Vis and infrared spectroscopy researches on wine detection and discrimination

Authors:
Yu, J; Wang, H; Zhan, JC; Huang, WD

Source:
*APPLIED SPECTROSCOPY REVIEWS*, 53 (1):65-86; 2018 

Abstract:
Wine has become a commodity of significant commercial value, and the
demand for high quality wine by consumers has been increasing. Suitable
analytical techniques are needed for its quality control. Ultraviolet,
Visible, Near-infrared and infrared spectroscopy is by far one of the
most important techniques for determining the wine quality, including
its components and characterization. This review will overview the
available most recent applications of spectroscopic techniques in the
past decade for wine quality prediction and discrimination both
quantitatively and qualitatively. The fundamental principles of these
techniques will be introduced briefly, and some innovative
setups/instrumentations will also be illustrated. At last the
limitations and prospects of spectroscopic techniques for wine industry
will be discussed.

### Analysis of spatial data with a nested correlation structure

Authors:
Adegboye, OA; Leung, DHY; Wang, YG

Source:
*JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL STATISTICAL SOCIETY SERIES C-APPLIED STATISTICS*, 67 (2):329-354; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Spatial statistical analyses are often used to study the link between
environmental factors and the incidence of diseases. In modelling
spatial data, the existence of spatial correlation between observations
must be considered. However, in many situations, the exact form of the
spatial correlation is unknown. This paper studies environmental factors
that might influence the incidence of malaria in Afghanistan. We assume
that spatial correlation may be induced by multiple latent sources. Our
method is based on a generalized estimating equation of the marginal
mean of disease incidence, as a function of the geographical factors and
the spatial correlation. Instead of using one set of generalized
estimating equations, we embed a series of generalized estimating
equations, each reflecting a particular source of spatial correlation,
into a larger system of estimating equations. To estimate the spatial
correlation parameters, we set up a supplementary set of estimating
equations based on the correlation structures that are induced from the
various sources. Simultaneous estimation of the mean and correlation
parameters is performed by alternating between the two systems of
equations.

### Generalized additive models with principal component analysis: an application to time series of respiratory disease and air pollution data

Authors:
de Souza, JB; Reisen, VA; Franco, GC; Ispany, M; Bondon, P; Santos, JM

Source:
*JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL STATISTICAL SOCIETY SERIES C-APPLIED STATISTICS*, 67 (2):453-480; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Environmental epidemiological studies of the health effects of air
pollution frequently utilize the generalized additive model (GAM) as the
standard statistical methodology, considering the ambient air pollutants
as explanatory covariates. Although exposure to air pollutants is
multi-dimensional, the majority of these studies consider only a single
pollutant as a covariate in the GAM model. This model restriction may be
because the pollutant variables do not only have serial dependence but
also interdependence between themselves. In an attempt to convey a more
realistic model, we propose here the hybrid generalized additive
model-principal component analysis-vector auto-regressive (GAM-PCA-VAR)
model, which is a combination of PCA and GAMs along with a VAR process.
The PCA is used to eliminate the multicollinearity between the
pollutants whereas the VAR model is used to handle the serial
correlation of the data to produce white noise processes as covariates
in the GAM. Some theoretical and simulation results of the methodology
proposed are discussed, with special attention to the effect of time
correlation of the covariates on the PCA and, consequently, on the
estimates of the parameters in the GAM and on the relative risk, which
is a commonly used statistical quantity to measure the effect of the
covariates, especially the pollutants, on population health. As a main
motivation to the methodology, a real data set is analysed with the aim
of quantifying the association between respiratory disease and air
pollution concentrations, especially particulate matter PM10, sulphur
dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and ozone. The empirical
results show that the GAM-PCA-VAR model can remove the auto-correlations
from the principal components. In addition, this method produces
estimates of the relative risk, for each pollutant, which are not
affected by the serial correlation in the data. This, in general, leads
to more pronounced values of the estimated risk compared with the
standard GAM model, indicating, for this study, an increase of almost
5.4% in the risk of PM10, which is one of the most important pollutants
which is usually associated with adverse effects on human health.

### Dynamic Bayesian network inferencing for non-homogeneous complex systems

Authors:
Wu, PPY; Caley, MJ; Kendrick, GA; McMahon, K; Mengersen, K

Source:
*JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL STATISTICAL SOCIETY SERIES C-APPLIED STATISTICS*, 67 (2):417-434; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs) provide a versatile method for
predictive, whole-of-systems modelling to support decision makers in
managing natural systems subject to anthropogenic disturbances. However,
DBNs typically assume a homogeneous Markov chain which we show can limit
the dynamics that can be modelled especially for complex ecosystems that
are susceptible to regime change (i.e. change in state transition
probabilities). Such regime changes can occur as a result of exogenous
inputs and/or because of past system states; the latter is known as path
dependence. We develop a method for non-homogeneous DBN inference to
capture the dynamics of potentially path-dependent ecosystems. The
method enables dynamic updates of DBN parameters at each time slice in
computing posterior marginal probabilities given evidence for forward
inference. An approximate algorithm for forward-backward inference is
also provided noting that convergence is not guaranteed in a
path-dependent system. We demonstrate the methods on a seagrass dredging
case-study and show that the incorporation of path dependence enables
conditional absorption into and release from the zero state in line with
ecological observations. The model helps managers to develop practical
ways to manage the marked effects of dredging on high value seagrass
ecosystems.

### CubeSats in Hydrology: Ultrahigh-Resolution Insights Into Vegetation Dynamics and Terrestrial Evaporation

Authors:
McCabe, MF; Aragon, B; Houborg, R; Mascaro, J

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (12):10017-10024; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Satellite-based remote sensing has generally necessitated a trade-off
between spatial resolution and temporal frequency, affecting the
capacity to observe fast hydrological processes and rapidly changing
land surface conditions. An avenue for overcoming these spatiotemporal
restrictions is the concept of using constellations of satellites, as
opposed to the mission focus exemplified by the more conventional
space-agency approach to earth observation. Referred to as CubeSats,
these platforms offer the potential to provide new insights into a range
of earth system variables and processes. Their emergence heralds a
paradigm shift from single-sensor launches to an operational approach
that envisions tens to hundreds of small, lightweight, and comparatively
inexpensive satellites placed into a range of low earth orbits. Although
current systems are largely limited to sensing in the optical portion of
the electromagnetic spectrum, we demonstrate the opportunity and
potential that CubeSats present the hydrological community via the
retrieval of vegetation dynamics and terrestrial evaporation and
foreshadow future sensing capabilities.


### Evaluating Spatial Variability in Sediment and Phosphorus Concentration-Discharge Relationships Using Bayesian Inference and Self-Organizing Maps

Authors:
Underwood, KL; Rizzo, DM; Schroth, AW; Dewoolkar, MM

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (12):10293-10316; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
Given the variable biogeochemical, physical, and hydrological processes
driving fluvial sediment and nutrient export, the water science and
management communities need data-driven methods to identify regions
prone to production and transport under variable hydrometeorological
conditions. We use Bayesian analysis to segment concentration-discharge
linear regression models for total suspended solids (TSS) and
particulate and dissolved phosphorus (PP, DP) using 22 years of
monitoring data from 18 Lake Champlain watersheds. Bayesian inference
was leveraged to estimate segmented regression model parameters and
identify threshold position. The identified threshold positions
demonstrated a considerable range below and above the median
discharge-which has been used previously as the default breakpoint in
segmented regression models to discern differences between pre and
post-threshold export regimes. We then applied a Self-Organizing Map
(SOM), which partitioned the watersheds into clusters of TSS, PP, and DP
export regimes using watershed characteristics, as well as Bayesian
regression intercepts and slopes. A SOM defined two clusters of
high-flux basins, one where PP flux was predominantly episodic and
hydrologically driven; and another in which the sediment and nutrient
sourcing and mobilization were more bimodal, resulting from both
hydrologic processes at post-threshold discharges and reactive processes
(e.g., nutrient cycling or lateral/vertical exchanges of fine sediment)
at prethreshold discharges. A separate DP SOM defined two high-flux
clusters exhibiting a bimodal concentration-discharge response, but
driven by differing land use. Our novel framework shows promise as a
tool with broad management application that provides insights into
landscape drivers of riverine solute and sediment export.

### A Field-Scale Sensor Network Data Set for Monitoring and Modeling the Spatial and Temporal Variation of Soil Water Content in a Dryland Agricultural Field

Authors:
Gasch, CK; Brown, DJ; Campbell, CS; Cobos, DR; Brooks, ES; Chahal, M;
Poggio, M

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 53 (12):10878-10887; DEC 2017 

Abstract:
We describe a soil water content monitoring data set and auxiliary data
collected at a 37 ha experimental no-till farm in the Northwestern
United States. Water content measurements have been compiled hourly
since 2007 by ECH2O-TE and 5TE sensors installed at 42 locations and
five depths (0.3, 0.6, 0.9, 1.2, and 1.5 m, 210 sensors total) across
the R. J. Cook Agronomy Farm, a Long-Term Agro-Ecosystem Research Site
stationed on complex terrain in a Mediterranean climate. In addition to
soil water content readings, the data set includes hourly and daily soil
temperature readings, annual crop histories, a digital elevation model,
Bt horizon maps, seasonal apparent electrical conductivity, soil
texture, and soil bulk density. Meteorological records are also
available for this location. We discuss the unique challenges of
maintaining the network on an operating farm and demonstrate the nature
and complexity of the soil water content data. This data set is
accessible online through the National Agriculture Library, has been
assigned a DOI, and will be maintained for the long term.

### Building an exposed soil composite processor (SCMaP) for mapping spatial and temporal characteristics of soils with Landsat imagery (1984-2014)

Authors:
Rogge, D; Bauer, A; Zeidler, J; Mueller, A; Esch, T; Heiden, U

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 205 1-17; FEB 2018 

Abstract:
Soil information with high spatial and temporal resolution is crucial to
assess potential soil degradation and to achieve sustainable
productivity and ultimately food security. The spatial resolution of
existing soil maps can commonly be too coarse to account for local soil
variations and owing to the cost and resource needs required to update
information these maps lack temporal information. With improved
computational processing capabilities, increased data storage and most
recently, the increasing amount of freely available data (e.g. Landsat,
Sentinel-2A/B), remote sensing imagery can be integrated into existing
soil mapping approaches to increase temporal and spatial resolution of
soil information. Satellite multi-temporal data allows for generating
cloud free, radiometrically and phenologically consistent pixel based
image composites of regional scale. Such data sets are of particular use
for extracting soil information in areas of intermediate climate where
soils are rarely exposed. The Soil Composite Mapping Processor (SCMaP)
is a new approach designed to make use of per-pixel compositing to
overcome the issue of limited soil exposure. The objective of this paper
is to demonstrate the automated processors ability to handle large image
databases to build multispectral reflectance composite base data layers
that can support large scale top soil analyses. The functionality of the
SCMaP is demonstrated using Landsat imagery over Germany from 1984 to
2014 applied over 5 year periods. Three primary product levels are
generated that will allow for a long term assessment and distribution of
soils that include the distribution of exposed soils, a statistical
information related to soil use and intensity and the generation of
exposed soil reflectance image composites. The resulting composite maps
provide useful value-added information on soils with the exposed soil
reflectance composites showing high spatial coverage that correlate well
with existing soil maps and the underlying geological structural
regions.

### ESA CCI Soil Moisture for improved Earth system understanding: State-of-the art and future directions

Authors:
Dorigo, W; Wagner, W; Albergel, C; Albrecht, F; Balsamo, G; Brocca, L;
Chung, D; Ertl, M; Forkel, M; Gruber, A; Haas, E; Hamer, PD; Hirschi, M;
Ikonen, J; de Jeu, R; Kidd, R; Lahoz, W; Liu, YY; Miralles, D;
Mistelbauer, T; Nicolai-Shaw, N; Parinussa, R; Pratola, C; Reimer, C;
van der Schalie, R; Seneviratne, SI; Smolander, T; Lecomte, P

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 203 185-215; DEC 15 2017 

Abstract:
Climate Data Records of soil moisture are fundamental for improving our
understanding of long-term dynamics in the coupled water, energy, and
carbon cycles over land. To respond to this need, in 2012 the European
Space Agency (ESA) released the first multi-decadal, global
satellite-observed soil moisture (SM) dataset as part of its Climate
Change Initiative (CO) program. This product, named ESA CCI SM, combines
various single-sensor active and passive microwave soil moisture
products into three harmonised products: a merged ACTIVE, a merged
PASSIVE, and a COMBINED active + passive microwave product. Compared to
the first product release, the latest version of ESA CCI SM includes a
large number of enhancements, incorporates various new satellite
sensors, and extends its temporal coverage to the period 1978-2015. In
this study, we first provide a comprehensive overview of the
characteristics, evolution, and performance of the ESA CCI SM products.
Based on original research and a review of existing literature we show
that the product quality has steadily increased with each successive
release and that the merged products generally outperform the
single-sensor input products. Although ESA CCI SM generally agrees well
with the spatial and temporal patterns estimated by land surface models
and observed in-situ, we identify surface conditions (e.g., dense
vegetation, organic soils) for which it still has large uncertainties.
Second, capitalising on the results of >100 research studies that made
use of the ESA CCI SM data we provide a synopsis of how it has
contributed to improved process understanding in the following Earth
system domains: climate variability and change, land-atmosphere
interactions, global biogeochemical cycles and ecology, hydrological and
land surface modelling, drought applications, and meteorology. While in
some disciplines the use of ESA CCI SM is already widespread (e.g. in
the evaluation of model soil moisture states) in others (e.g. in
numerical weather prediction or flood forecasting) it is still in its
infancy. The latter is partly related to current shortcomings of the
product, e.g., the lack of near-real-time availability and data gaps in
time and space. This study discloses the discrepancies between current
ESA CCI SM product characteristics and the preferred characteristics of
long-term satellite soil moisture products as outlined by the Global
Climate Observing System (GCOS), and provides important directions for
future ESA CCI SM product improvements to bridge these gaps. (C) 2017
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.










