---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-11-25
modified: 2018-11-25
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #22


* Multi-temporal RADARSAT-2 polarimetric SAR for maize mapping supported by segmentations from high-resolution optical image
* Full year crop monitoring and separability assessment with fully-polarimetric L-band UAVSAR: A case study in the Sacramento Valley, California
* Soil sampling with drones and augmented reality in precision agriculture
* Informing transport infrastructure investments using TraNSIT: A case study for Australian agriculture and forestry
* START: A data preparation tool for crop simulation models using web-based soil databases
* An open-source spatial analysis system for embedded systems












<!--more-->

### Multi-temporal RADARSAT-2 polarimetric SAR for maize mapping supported by segmentations from high-resolution optical image

Authors:
Shuai, GY; Zhang, JS; Basso, B; Pan, YZ; Zhu, XF; Zhu, S; Liu, HL

Source:
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION, 74 1-15; FEB 2019 

Abstract:
Due to its ability to penetrate the cloud, Synthetic Aperture Radar
(SAR) has been a great resource for crop mapping. Previous research has
verified the applicability of SAR imagery in object-oriented crop
classification, however, speckle noise limits the generation of optimal
segmentation. This paper proposed an innovative SARbased maize mapping
method supported by optical image, Gaofen-1 PMS, based segmentation,
named as parcel based SAR classification assisted by optical
imagery-based segmentation (os-PSC). Polarimetric decomposition was
applied to extract polarimetric parameters from multi-temporal
RADARSAT-2 data. One Gaofen-1 image was then used for parcel extraction,
which was the basic unit for SAR image analysis. The final step was a
multistep classification for final maize mapping including: the
potential maize mask extraction, pure/mixed maize parcel division and an
integrated maize map production. Results showed that the overall
accuracy of the os-PSC method was 89.1%, higher than those of
pixel-level classification and SAR-based segmentation methods. The
comparison between optical- and SAR-based segmentation demonstrated that
optical-based segmentation would be better at representing maize field
boundaries than the SAR-based segmentation. Moreover, the parcel- and
pixel-level integrated classification will be suitable for many
agricultural systems with small landownership where inter-cropping is
common. Through integrating advantages of the SAR and optical data,
os-PSC shows promising potentials for crop mapping.

### Full year crop monitoring and separability assessment with fully-polarimetric L-band UAVSAR: A case study in the Sacramento Valley, California

Authors:
Li, HP; Zhang, C; Zhang, SQ; Atkinson, PM

Source:
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION, 74 45-56; FEB 2019 

Abstract:
Spatial and temporal information on plant and soil conditions is needed
urgently for monitoring of crop productivity. Remote sensing has been
considered as an effective means for crop growth monitoring due to its
timely updating and complete coverage. In this paper, we explored the
potential of L-band fully-polarimetric Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle
Synthetic Aperture Radar (UAVSAR) data for crop monitoring and
classification. The study site was located in the Sacramento Valley, in
California where the cropping system is relatively diverse. Full season
polarimetric signatures, as well as scattering mechanisms, for several
crops, including almond, walnut, alfalfa, winter wheat, corn, sunflower,
and tomato, were analyzed with linear polarizations (HH, HV, and VV) and
polarimetric decomposition (Cloude-Pottier and Freeman-Durden)
parameters, respectively. The separability amongst crop types was
assessed across a full calendar year based on both linear polarizations
and decomposition parameters. The unique structure-related polarimetric
signature of each crop was provided by multitemporal UAVSAR data with a
fine temporal resolution. Permanent tree crops (almond and walnut) and
alfalfa demonstrated stable radar backscattering values across the
growing season, whereas winter wheat and summer crops (corn, sunflower,
and tomato) presented drastically different patterns, with rapid
increase from the emergence stage to the peak biomass stage, followed by
a significant decrease during the senescence stage. In general, the
polarimetric signature was heterogeneous during June and October, while
homogeneous during March-to-May and July-to-August. The scattering
mechanisms depend heavily upon crop type and phenological stage. The
primary scattering mechanism for tree crops was volume scattering (>
40%), while surface scattering (> 40%) dominated for alfalfa and winter
wheat, although double-bounce scattering (> 30%) was notable for alfalfa
during March-to-September. Surface scattering was also dominant (> 40%)
for summer crops across the growing season except for sunflower and
tomato during June and corn during July-to-October when volume
scattering (> 40%) was the primary scattering mechanism. Crops were
better discriminated with decomposition parameters than with linear
polarizations, and the greatest separability occurred during the peak
biomass stage (July-August). All crop types were completely separable
from the others when simultaneously using UAVSAR data spanning the whole
growing season. The results demonstrate the feasibility of L-band SAR
for crop monitoring and classification, without the need for optical
data, and should serve as a guideline for future research.

### Soil sampling with drones and augmented reality in precision agriculture

Authors:
Huuskonen, J; Oksanen, T

Source:
COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE, 154 25-35; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Soil sampling is an important tool to gather information for making
proper decisions regarding the fertilization of fields. Depending on the
national regulations, the minimum frequency may be once per five years
and spatially every ten hectares. For precision farming purposes, this
is not sufficient. In precision farming, the challenge is to collect the
samples from such regions that are internally consistent while limiting
the number of samples required. For this purpose, management zones are
used to divide the field into smaller regions. This article presents a
novel approach to automatically determine the locations for soil samples
based on a soil map created from drone imaging after ploughing, and a
wearable augmented reality technology to guide the user to the generated
sample points. Finally, the article presents the results of a
demonstration carried out in southern Finland.


### Informing transport infrastructure investments using TraNSIT: A case study for Australian agriculture and forestry

Authors:
Higgins, A; McFallan, S; Marinoni, O; McKeown, A; Bruce, C; Chilcott, C;
Pinkard, L

Source:
COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE, 154 187-203; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Transport infrastructure is essential to moving over 85 million tonnes
of agricultural products and 30 million cubic metres of timber from
farms and production areas to domestic and international markets each
year in Australia. Agriculture supply chains in Australia are
characterised by long distances with transport costs accounting for up
to 40 percent of the market price. Targeted infrastructure investment
and/or regulatory changes can substantially reduce transport-related
logistics costs. To provide a comprehensive view of transport logistics
costs and benefits due to infrastructure investments and regulatory
changes in agriculture and forestry supply chains, CSIRO developed a
computer-based tool - the Transport Network Strategic Investment Tool
(TraNSIT). TraNSIT optimises transport routes for upto hundreds of
thousands of enterprises and millions of vehicle trips between farms and
their markets, providing information on routing to maximise cost
efficiencies. Through an Australian Government initiative, TraNSIT was
applied to over 30 commodities representing 98% of Australian
agricultural and plantation forestry volume transported by road and
rail. TraNSIT is now a comprehensive logistics tool that has been
applied to the largest agricultural supply chain dataset ever assembled
in Australia. This paper provides an overview of TraNSIT, its adaptation
to agriculture and forestry logistics as part of the project, and its
application to several case studies in Australia including new road
links, rail versus road and flooding.

### START: A data preparation tool for crop simulation models using web-based soil databases

Authors:
Kim, KS; Yoo, BH; Shelia, V; Porter, CH; Hoogenboom, G

Source:
COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE, 154 256-264; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Soil profile data that characterize the physical and chemical properties
of a soil are among the required set of inputs for ecological, crop and
other dynamic simulation models. A web-based soil information system
often provides the site-specific soil data of which formats are not
readily compatible to crop models. The Soil daTA Retrieval Tool (START)
was developed to automate a series of procedures for preparation of soil
input data that includes the retrieval of soil profile data from the
information system, reorganization of data, estimation of soil
parameters, and creation of input files foi simulation models. In a case
study, the START was implemented to support the SoilGrids database
operated by the International Soil Reference and Information Center. It
took about 0.33% of time for the START to create soil input files
compared with manual preparation. These results suggest that the START
could provide an efficient approach for preparation of soil input files
especially for sites where little soil information is available.

### An open-source spatial analysis system for embedded systems

Authors:
Coelho, ALD; de Queiroz, DM; Valente, DSM; Pinto, FDD

Source:
COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE, 154 289-295; NOV 2018 

Abstract:
Soil and plant monitoring systems are important tools for applying
precision agriculture techniques. To acquire soil-plant system data, the
user establishes a sampling strategy, goes to the field, collects data
and finally goes to the office for data analysis. Sometimes, when the
analysis is performed, the user realizes that the sampling strategy was
not adequate and needs to return to the field in order to collect more
data. To avoid problems with the sampling strategy, the solution is to
have a system that performs the data analysis immediately after its
collection, while the user is still in the field. To do that, we can use
single board computers; these types of platforms have ports to
communicate to sensors and good processing capabilities. Therefore, the
objective of this work was to develop an embedded system to perform
spatial variability data analysis in the field, right after data
acquisition. The software was developed using Python 3.6; the PyQt
Integrated Development Environment (Riverbank Computer Limited,
Dorchester, United Kingdom) was used to design a graphical user
interface. The BeagleBone Black board, running Debian version 8.6, was
used to implement the software. The analysis was divided into three
steps: in the first one, an outlier and inlier analysis was performed to
remove unwanted data; in the second one, the semivariogram was
generated, and the variable and standard deviation map was produced by
performing ordinary kriging; and in the last one, a cluster analysis was
performed to create management classes using a fuzzy k-means algorithm.
The graphical user interface showed the variable map and the variable
classes map. To test the developed software, soybean yield data that was
collected in a 31.6-ha field were used. The developed software was shown
to be efficient at performing the spatial variability of soybean yields.
The comparison of the generated maps shows the importance of filtering
the data before performing the analysis. The developed software is
available at the GitHub website.





