---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2018-05-12
modified: 2018-05-12
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2018 #10

* Hydrological Storage Length Scales Represented by Remote Sensing Estimates of Soil Moisture and Precipitation
* A Primer for Model Selection: The Decisive Role of Model Complexity
* Spatial Variability of Soil Moisture and the Scale Issue: A Geostatistical Approach
* Soil Texture Often Exerts a Stronger Influence Than Precipitation on Mesoscale Soil Moisture Patterns
* Deep learning in agriculture: A survey
* Vineyard water status estimation using multispectral imagery from an UAV platform and machine learning algorithms for irrigation scheduling management
* Spectral matching based on discrete particle swarm optimization: A new method for terrestrial water body extraction using multi-temporal Landsat 8 images
* How much can natural resource inventory benefit from finer resolution auxiliary data?
* A Cubesat enabled Spatio-Temporal Enhancement Method (CESTEM) utilizing Planet, Landsat and MODIS data
* The functional characterization of grass- and shrubland ecosystems using hyperspectral remote sensing: trends, accuracy and moderating variables
* Overview of Solar-Induced chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) from the Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2: Retrieval, cross-mission comparison, and global monitoring for GPP
* Soil respiration and its temperature sensitivity (Q10): Rapid acquisition using mid-infrared spectroscopy
* Soil mineral assemblage and substrate quality effects on microbial priming
* The singularity index for soil geochemical variables, and a mixture model for its interpretation
* A pedometric technique to delimitate soil-specific zones at field scale
* Digital soil monitoring of top- and sub-soil pH with bivariate linear mixed models
* A preliminary spatial quantification of the soil security dimensions for Tasmania
* Soil quality - A critical review
* The root of the matter: Linking root traits and soil organic matter stabilization processes










































<!--more-->

### Hydrological Storage Length Scales Represented by Remote Sensing Estimates of Soil Moisture and Precipitation

Authors:
Akbar, R; Gianotti, DS; McColl, KA; Haghighi, E; Salvucci, GD;
Entekhabi, D

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (3):1476-1492; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
The soil water content profile is often well correlated with the soil
moisture state near the surface. They share mutual information such that
analysis of surface-only soil moisture is, at times and in conjunction
with precipitation information, reflective of deeper soil fluxes and
dynamics. This study examines the characteristic length scale, or
effective depth Delta z, of a simple active hydrological control volume.
The volume is described only by precipitation inputs and soil water
dynamics evident in surface-only soil moisture observations. To proceed,
first an observation-based technique is presented to estimate the soil
moisture loss function based on analysis of soil moisture dry-downs and
its successive negative increments. Then, the length scale Delta z is
obtained via an optimization process wherein the root-mean-squared (RMS)
differences between surface soil moisture observations and its
predictions based on water balance are minimized. The process is
entirely observation-driven. The surface soil moisture estimates are
obtained from the NASA Soil Moisture Active Passive (SMAP) mission and
precipitation from the gauge-corrected Climate Prediction Center daily
global precipitation product. The length scale Delta z exhibits a clear
east-west gradient across the contiguous United States (CONUS), such
that large Delta z depths (>200 mm) are estimated in wetter regions with
larger mean precipitation. The median Delta z across CONUS is 135 mm.
The spatial variance of Delta z is predominantly explained and
influenced by precipitation characteristics. Soil properties, especially
texture in the form of sand fraction, as well as the mean soil moisture
state have a lesser influence on the length scale.

### A Primer for Model Selection: The Decisive Role of Model Complexity

Authors:
Hoge, M; Wohling, T; Nowak, W

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (3):1688-1715; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
Selecting a "best" model among several competing candidate models poses
an often encountered problem in water resources modeling (and other
disciplines which employ models). For a modeler, the best model fulfills
a certain purpose best (e.g., flood prediction), which is typically
assessed by comparing model simulations to data (e.g., stream flow).
Model selection methods find the "best" trade-off between good fit with
data and model complexity. In this context, the interpretations of model
complexity implied by different model selection methods are crucial,
because they represent different underlying goals of modeling. Over the
last decades, numerous model selection criteria have been proposed, but
modelers who primarily want to apply a model selection criterion often
face a lack of guidance for choosing the right criterion that matches
their goal. We propose a classification scheme for model selection
criteria that helps to find the right criterion for a specific goal,
i.e., which employs the correct complexity interpretation. We identify
four model selection classes which seek to achieve high predictive
density, low predictive error, high model probability, or shortest
compression of data. These goals can be achieved by following either
nonconsistent or consistent model selection and by either incorporating
a Bayesian parameter prior or not. We allocate commonly used criteria to
these four classes, analyze how they represent model complexity and what
this means for the model selection task. Finally, we provide guidance on
choosing the right type of criteria for specific model selection tasks.
(A quick guide through all key points is given at the end of the
introduction.)

### Spatial Variability of Soil Moisture and the Scale Issue: A Geostatistical Approach

Authors:
Zarlenga, A; Fiori, A; Russo, D

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (3):1765-1780; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
We study the standard deviation of water saturation SDS as function of
the mean saturation < S > by a stochastic model of unsaturated flow,
which is based on the first-order solution of the three-dimensional
Richards equation. The model assumes spatially variable soil properties,
following a given geostatistical description, and it explicitly accounts
for the different scales involved in the determination of the spatial
properties of saturation: the extent L, i.e., the domain size, the
spacing Delta among measurements, and the dimension l associated to the
sampling measurement. It is found that the interplay between those
scales and the correlation scale I of the hydraulic properties rules the
spatial variability of saturation. A "scale effect'' manifests for small
to intermediate L/I, for which SDS increase with the extent L. This
nonergodic effect depends on the structural and hydraulic parameters as
well as the scales of the problem, and it is consistent with a similar
effect found in field experiments. In turn, the influence of the scale l
is to decrease the saturation variability and increase its spatial
correlation. Although the solution focuses on the medium heterogeneity
as the main driver for the spatial variability of saturation, neglecting
other important components, it explicitly links the spatial variation of
saturation to the hydraulic properties of the soil, their spatial
variability, and the sampling schemes; it can provide a useful tool to
assess the impact of scales on the saturation variability, also in view
of the several applications that involve the saturation variability.

### Soil Texture Often Exerts a Stronger Influence Than Precipitation on Mesoscale Soil Moisture Patterns

Authors:
Dong, JN; Ochsner, TE

Source:
*WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH*, 54 (3):2199-2211; MAR 2018 

Abstract:
Soil moisture patterns are commonly thought to be dominated by land
surface characteristics, such as soil texture, at small scales and by
atmospheric processes, such as precipitation, at larger scales. However,
a growing body of evidence challenges this conceptual model. We
investigated the structural similarity and spatial correlations between
mesoscale (approximate to 1-100 km) soil moisture patterns and land
surface and atmospheric factors along a 150 km transect using 4 km
multisensor precipitation data and a cosmic-ray neutron rover, with a
400 m diameter footprint. The rover was used to measure soil moisture
along the transect 18 times over 13 months. Spatial structures of soil
moisture, soil texture (sand content), and antecedent precipitation
index (API) were characterized using autocorrelation functions and
fitted with exponential models. Relative importance of land surface
characteristics and atmospheric processes were compared using
correlation coefficients (r) between soil moisture and sand content or
API. The correlation lengths of soil moisture, sand content, and API
ranged from 12-32 km, 13-20 km, and 14-45 km, respectively. Soil
moisture was more strongly correlated with sand content (r=-0.536 to
-0.704) than with API for all but one date. Thus, land surface
characteristics exhibit coherent spatial patterns at scales up to 20 km,
and those patterns often exert a stronger influence than do
precipitation patterns on mesoscale spatial patterns of soil moisture.


### Deep learning in agriculture: A survey

Authors:
Kamilaris, A; Prenafeta-Boldu, FX

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 147 70-90; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Deep learning constitutes a recent, modem technique for image processing
and data analysis, with promising results and large potential. As deep
learning has been successfully applied in various domains, it has
recently entered also the domain of agriculture. In this paper, we
perform a survey of 40 research efforts that employ deep learning
techniques, applied to various agricultural and food production
challenges. We examine the particular agricultural problems under study,
the specific models and frameworks employed, the sources, nature and
pre-processing of data used, and the overall performance achieved
according to the metrics used at each work under study. Moreover, we
study comparisons of deep learning with other existing popular
techniques, in respect to differences in classification or regression
performance. Our findings indicate that deep learning provides high
accuracy, outperforming existing commonly used image processing
techniques.


### Vineyard water status estimation using multispectral imagery from an UAV platform and machine learning algorithms for irrigation scheduling management

Authors:
Romero, M; Luo, YC; Su, BF; Fuentes, S

Source:
*COMPUTERS AND ELECTRONICS IN AGRICULTURE*, 147 109-117; APR 2018 

Abstract:
Remote sensing can provide a fast and reliable alternative for
traditional in situ water status measurement in vineyards. Several
vegetation indices (Ws) derived from aerial multispectral imagery were
tested to estimate midday stem water potential (Psi(stem)) of
grapevines. The experimental trial was carried out in a vineyard in the
Shangri-La region, located in Yunnan province in China. Statistical
methods and machine learning algorithms were used to evaluate the
correlations between Psi(stem) and VIs. Results by simple regression
between VIs individually and Psi(stem) showed no significant
relationships, with coefficient of determination (R-2) for linear
fitting smaller than 0.3 for almost all the indices studied, except for
the Optimal Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (OSAVI); R-2 = 0.42 with
statistical significance (p <= 0.001). However, results from a model
obtained by fitting using Artificial Neural Network (ANN), using all VIs
calculated as inputs and real Psi(stem) from plants within the study
site (n = 90) as targets (Model 1), showed high correlation between the
estimated water potential through ANN (Psi(stem ANN)) and the actual
measured Psi(stem). Training, validation and testing data sets presented
individual correlations of R = 0.8, 0.72 and 0.62 respectively. The
models obtained from the study site were then applied to a wider area
from the vineyard studied and compared to further Psi(stem) measured
obtained from different sites (n = 23) showing high correlation values
between Psi(stem) (ANN) and real Psi(stem) (R-2 = 0.83; slope = 1; p <=
0.001). Finally, a pattern recognition ANN model (Model 2) was developed
for irrigation scheduling purposes using the same Psi(stem) measured in
the study site as inputs and with the following thresholds as outputs:
Psi(stem) below -1.2 MPa considered as severe water stress (SS),
Psi(stem) between -0.8 to -1.2 MPa as moderate stress (MS) and Psi(stem)
over -0.8 MPa with no water stress (NS). This model can be applied to
analyze on a plant by plant basis to identify sectors of stress within
the vineyard for optimal irrigation management and to identify spatial
variability within the vineyards.

### Spectral matching based on discrete particle swarm optimization: A new method for terrestrial water body extraction using multi-temporal Landsat 8 images

Authors:
Jia, K; Jiang, WG; Li, J; Tang, ZH

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 209 1-18; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Terrestrial water, an important indicator of inland hydrological status,
is sensitive to land use cover change, natural disaster and climate
change. An accurate and robust water extraction method can determine the
surface water distribution. In this paper, a new method, called the
spectrum matching based on discrete particle swarm optimization (SMDPSO)
is proposed to recognize water and nonwater in Landsat 8 Operational
Land Imager (OLI) images. Only two parameters, the standard water
spectrum and the tile size, are considered. These parameters are
sufficiently stable so it is unnecessary to change their values for
different conditions. By contrast, in supervised methods, samples are
chosen based on conditions. Eight test sites covering various water
types in different climate conditions are used to assess the performance
relative to that of unsupervised and supervised methods in terms of
overall accuracy (OA), kappa coefficients (KC), commission error (CE)
and omission error (OE). The results show that: (1) SMDPSO achieves the
highest accuracy and robustness; (2) SMDPSO has lower OE but higher CE
than the supervised method, which means that SMDPSO is the least likely
to misclassify water as nonwater, but is more likely to misclassify
nonwater as water; (3) SMDPSO has advantages with respect to removing
shallows and dark vegetation and preserving the real distribution of
small ponds, but cannot recognize shadows, ice, or clouds without the
help of other data such as DEM. In addition, a case of flooding in
northeastern China is analyzed to demonstrate the applicability of
SMDPSO in water inundation mapping. The findings of this study
demonstrate a novel robust, low-cost water extraction method that
satisfies the requirements of terrestrial water inundation mapping and
management.

### How much can natural resource inventory benefit from finer resolution auxiliary data?

Authors:
Hou, ZY; McRoberts, RE; Stahl, G; Packalen, P; Greenberg, JA; Xu, Q

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 209 31-40; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
For remote sensing-assisted natural resource inventories, the effects of
spatial resolution in the form of pixel size and the effects of subpixel
information on estimates of population parameters were evaluated by
comparing results obtained using Landsat 8 and RapidEye auxiliary
imagery. The study area was in Burkina Faso, and the response variable
of interest was firewood volume (m(3)/ha). A sample consisting of 160
field plots was selected from the population following a two-stage
sampling design. Models were fit using weighted least squares; the
population mean, mu, and the variance of the estimator of the population
mean, V ((mu) over cap), were estimated using two inferential
frameworks, model-based and model-assisted, and compared. For each
framework, V((mu) over cap) was estimated both analytically and
empirically. Empirical variances were estimated using bootstrapping that
accounted for the two-stage sampling. The primary results were twofold.
First, for the effects of spatial resolution and subpixel information,
four conclusions are relevant: (1) finer spatial resolution imagery
indeed contributed to greater precision for estimators of population
parameter, but despite the finer spatial resolution of RapidEye, the
increase was only marginal, on the order of 10% for model-based variance
estimators and 36% for model assisted variance estimators; (2) subpixel
information on texture was marginally beneficial for inference of large
area population parameters; (3) RapidEye did not offer enough of an
improvement to justify its cost relative to the free Landsat 8 imagery;
and (4) for a given plot size, candidate remote sensing auxiliary
datasets are more cost-effective when their spatial resolutions are
similar to the plot size than with much finer alternatives. Second, for
the comparison between estimators, three conclusions are relevant: (1)
sampling distribution for the model based V((mu) over cap) was more
concentrated and smaller on the order of 42% to 59% than that for the
model-assisted V((mu) over cap), suggesting superior consistency and
efficiency of model-based inference to model-assisted inference; (2)
bootstrapping is an effective alternative to analytical variance
estimators; and (3) prediction accuracy expressed by RMSE is useful for
screening candidate models to be used for population inferences.

### A Cubesat enabled Spatio-Temporal Enhancement Method (CESTEM) utilizing Planet, Landsat and MODIS data

Authors:
Houborg, R; McCabe, MF

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 209 211-226; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Satellite sensing in the visible to near-infrared (VNIR) domain has been
the backbone of land surface monitoring and characterization for more
than four decades. However, a limitation of conventional single-sensor
satellite missions is their limited capacity to observe land surface
dynamics at the very high spatial and temporal resolutions demanded by a
wide range of applications. One solution to this spatio-temporal divide
is an observation strategy based on the CubeSat standard, which
facilitates constellations of small, inexpensive satellites. Repeatable
near-daily image capture in RGB and near-infrared (NIR) bands at 3-4 m
resolution has recently become available via a constellation of > 130
CubeSats operated commercially by Planet. While the observing capacity
afforded by this system is unprecedented, the relatively low radiometric
quality and cross-sensor inconsistencies represent key challenges in the
realization of their full potential as a game changer in Earth
observation. To address this issue, we developed a Cubesat Enabled
Spatio-Temporal Enhancement Method (CESTEM) that uses a multi-scale
machine-learning technique to correct for radiometric inconsistencies
between CubeSat acquisitions. The CESTEM produces Landsat 8 consistent
atmospherically corrected surface reflectances in blue, green, red, and
NIR bands, but at the spatial scale and temporal frequency of the
CubeSat observations. An application of CESTEM over an agricultural
dryland system in Saudi Arabia demonstrated CubeSat-based reproduction
of Landsat 8 consistent VNIR data with an overall relative mean absolute
deviation of 1.6% or better, even when the Landsat 8 and CubeSat
acquisitions were temporally displaced by > 32 days. The consistently
high retrieval accuracies were achieved using a multi-scale target
sampling scheme that draws Landsat 8 reference data from a series of
scenes by using MODIS-consistent surface reflectance time series to
quantify relative changes in Landsat-scale reflectances over given
Landsat-CubeSat acquisition timespans. With the observing potential of
Planet's CubeSats approaching daily nadir-pointing land surface imaging
of the entire Earth, CESTEM offers the capacity to produce daily Landsat
8 consistent VNIR imagery with a factor of 10 increase in spatial
resolution and with the radiometric quality of actual Landsat 8
observations. Realization of this unprecedented Earth observing capacity
has far reaching implications for the monitoring and characterization of
terrestrial systems at the precision scale.


### The functional characterization of grass- and shrubland ecosystems using hyperspectral remote sensing: trends, accuracy and moderating variables

Authors:
Van Cleemput, E; Vanierschot, L; Fernandez-Castilla, B; Honnay, O;
Somers, B

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 209 747-763; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Hyperspectral remote sensing is increasingly being recognized as a
powerful tool to map ecosystem properties and functions through time and
space. However, general information on the accuracy of this technology
to assess the vegetation's biophysical and-chemical trait composition,
and on the variables which are mediating this accuracy, is often lacking
so far. Here, we addressed this knowledge gap for grass- and shrubland
ecosystems and applied novel three-level meta-analytical regression
equations to 77 studies that validated hyperspectral remote sensing data
with field observations. Our results showed that the accuracy of
hyperspectral sensors is generally high, but strongly depends on the
trait being studied (leaf area index: R-2 = 0.79 and nRMSE = 0.19,
chlorophyll: R-2 = 0.77 and nRMSE = 0.21, carotenoids: R-2 = 0.80 and
nRMSE = 0.29, phosphorus: R-2 = 0.75 and nRMSE = 0.14, nitrogen: R-2 =
0.74 and nRMSE = 0.09, water: R-2 = 0.69 and nRMSE = 0.13, and lignin
content: R-2 = 0.64 and nRMSE = 0.26). Moreover, they indicated that the
use of multivariate signal processing techniques could improve these
estimation accuracies (adjusted p < 0.06 for LAI, chlorophyll and
nitrogen). Finally, estimations from air- and spaceborne imaging
spectrometers, allowing for functional mapping at broader spatial
scales, were found to be as accurate as estimations from ground-based
spectral measurements. Despite these promising findings, we revealed
that leaf morphological properties (e.g. specific leaf area and leaf dry
matter content) and biochemical traits which are not growth-related
(e.g. lignin and cellulose) remain under explored in grass- and
shrublands. Moreover there was a strong publication bias towards R2 for
assessing model performance. Our findings foster and direct further
methodological and technological developments for a more accurate and
complete functional characterization of these ecosystems worldwide.

### Overview of Solar-Induced chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) from the Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2: Retrieval, cross-mission comparison, and global monitoring for GPP

Authors:
Sun, Y; Frankenberg, C; Jung, M; Joiner, J; Guanter, L; Kohler, P;
Magney, T

Source:
*REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT*, 209 808-823; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2), launched in July 2014, is
capable of measuring Solar-Induced chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF), a
functional proxy for terrestrial gross primary productivity (GPP).
Although its primary mission is to measure the column-averaged mixing
ratio of CO2 (Xco(2)) to constrain global carbon source/sink
distribution, one of the OCO-2 spectrometers allows for a robust SIF
retrieval solely based on solar Fraunhofer lines. Here we present a
technical overview of the OCO-2 SIF product, aiming to provide the
scientific community guidance on best practices for data analysis,
interpretation, and application. This overview consists of the retrieval
algorithms, OCO-2 specific bias correction, retrieval uncertainty
evaluation, cross-mission comparison with other existing SIF products,
and a global-scale examination of the SIF-GPP relationship. With the
initial three years of data (September 2014 onward), we compared OCO-2
SIF with retrievals from Greenhouse Gases Observing Satellite (GOSAT)
and Global Ozone Monitoring Experiment-2 (GOME-2), and examined its
relationship with FLUXCOM and MODIS GPP datasets. Our results show that
OCO-2 SIF, along with GOSAT products, closely resemble the mean spatial
and temporal patterns of FLUXCOM GPP from regions to the globe. Compared
with GOME-2, however, OCO-2 depicts a more realistic spatial contrast
between the tropics and extra-tropics. The linear relationship between
OCO-2 SIF and existing modeled GPP products diverges somewhat across
biomes at the global scale, consistent with previous GOSAT or GOME-2
based findings when modeled GPP products were used, but in contrast to a
consistent cross-biome SIF-GPP relationship obtained at flux tower sites
with OCO-2 products. This contrast suggests a critical need to reconcile
differences in diverse SIF and GPP products and the relationships among
them. Overall, the OCO-2 SIF products are robust and valuable for
monitoring the global terrestrial carbon cycle and for constraining the
carbon source/sink strengths of the Earth system. Finally, insights are
offered for future satellite missions optimized for SIF retrievals.


### Soil respiration and its temperature sensitivity (Q10): Rapid acquisition using mid-infrared spectroscopy

Authors:
Meyer, N; Meyer, H; Welp, G; Amelung, W

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 323 31-40; AUG 1 2018 

Abstract:
Spatial patterns of soil respiration (SR) and its sensitivity to
temperature (Q10) are one of the key uncertainties in climate change
research but since their assessment is very time-consuming, large data
sets can still not be provided. Here, we investigated the potential of
mid-infrared spectroscopy (MIRS) to predict SR and Q10 values for 124
soil samples of diverse land use types taken from a 2868 km(2) catchment
(Rur catchment, Germany/Belgium/Netherlands). Soil respiration at
standardized temperature (25 degrees C) and soil moisture (45% of
maximum water holding capacity, WHC) was successfully predicted by MIRS
coupled with partial least square regression (PLSR, R-2 = 0.83). Also
the Q10 value was predictable by MIRS-PLSR for a grassland submodel (R-2
= 0.75) and a cropland submodel (R-2 = 0.72) but not for forested sites
(R-2 = 0.03). In order to provide soil respiration estimates for
arbitrary conditions of temperature and soil moisture, more flexible
models are required that can handle nonlinear and interacting relations.
Therefore, we applied a Random Forest model, which includes the MIRS
spectra, temperature, soil moisture, and land use as predictor
variables. We could show that SR can be simultaneously predicted for any
temperature (5-25 degrees C) and soil moisture level (30-75% of WHC),
indicated by a high R-2 of 0.73. We conclude that the combination of
MIRS with sophisticated statistical prediction tools allows for a novel,
rapid acquisition of SR and Q10 values across landscapes and thus to
fill an important data gap in the validation of large scale carbon
modeling.

### Soil mineral assemblage and substrate quality effects on microbial priming

Authors:
Finley, BK; Dijkstra, P; Rasmussen, C; Schwartz, E; Mau, RL; Liu, XJA;
Van Gestel, N; Hungate, BA

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 322 38-47; JUL 15 2018 

### The singularity index for soil geochemical variables, and a mixture model for its interpretation

Authors:
Lark, RM; Patton, M; Ander, EL; Reay, DM

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 323 83-106; AUG 1 2018 

Abstract:
A geochemical anomaly is a concentration of an element or other
constituent in a medium (soil, sediment or surface water) which is
unusual in its local setting. Geochemical anomalies may be interesting
as indicators of processes such as point contamination or
mineralizations. They may therefore be practically useful, indicating
sources of pollution or mineral deposits which may be of economic value.
As defined, a geochemical anomaly is not merely a large (or small)
concentration of a constituent as compared to the marginal distribution.
To detect anomalies we must therefore do more than simply map the
spatial distribution of the constituent. One proposed approach makes use
of a singularity index based on fractal representation of spatial
variation. The singularity index can be computed from local
concentration measures in nested windows. In this paper we propose an
approach to compute threshold values for the index to identify
enrichment and depletion anomalies, separate from background
information. The approach is based on a mixture model for the
singularity index, and it can be supported by computing a distribution
for background values of the index by parametric bootstrapping from a
robustly-estimated variogram model for the target constituent. This
approach is illustrated here using data on elements in the soil in four
settings in Great Britain and Ireland.

### A pedometric technique to delimitate soil-specific zones at field scale

Authors:
Castro-Franco, M; Cordoba, MA; Balzarini, MG; Costa, JL

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 322 101-111; JUL 15 2018 

Abstract:
Delimitation of soil types within a farm field is key for site-specific
crop management. An alternative to this, is to develop pedometric
techniques that allow an efficient combination of soil survey
information and high-resolution terrain attribute data. The aim of this
study was to present and evaluate a pedometric technique to delimit
soil-specific zones at field scale by coupled Random forest, fuzzy
k-means clustering and spatial principal components algorithms
(RF-KM-sPCA) and by using information from soil surveys and terrain
attributes derived from a digital elevation model. The protocol involves
three-steps: 1) automatic classification of small (20x20m) spatial units
(SU) using the knowledge of the soil map units present in the farm
landscape, 2) aggregation of SUM at farm scale and 3) validation of
soil-specific zones. For the first step, we used the random forest
algorithm with 10 terrain attributes. For the second step, KM-sPCA
algorithms were used to cluster within field SU accounting for
autocorrelation. For the third step, apparent soil electrical
conductivity and yield maps was used to validate the delimitation of
soil-specific zones. This technique produced more contiguous zones than
other cluster methods which do not use spatiality. Six farm fields with
highly differences in soils were partitioned by the proposed pedometric
strategy. Apparent soil electrical conductivity and yield maps present
significant differences among zones in all experimental fields. This
analytic strategy, based in easy-to-obtain data, could be used to
improve precision agricultural managements.

### Digital soil monitoring of top- and sub-soil pH with bivariate linear mixed models

Authors:
Filippi, P; Cattle, SR; Bishop, TFA; Odeh, IOA; Pringle, MJ

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 322 149-162; JUL 15 2018 

Abstract:
Intensive agricultural management practices and fluctuating rainfall
patterns have the potential to significantly impact the status and
change of important soil properties. This study looks at the change in
soil pH during a 13-year period in a semi-arid, irrigated cotton-growing
region in the lower Lachlan River valley in southern NSW, Australia
under various land uses. Two soil surveys - one from 2002 and the other
from 2015 - that had many of the same sites revisited and resampled,
were used in conjunction with bivariate linear mixed models (BLMMs) to
map soil pH status and change, at five depth increments to 1.2 m depth.
The BLMM approach resulted in models with high predictive power and low
prediction variance, likely due to the utilisation of the correlation of
pH values at co-located sites through time. Results revealed an overall
acidification trend throughout the soil profile, particularly in the
subsoil. Test statistics were performed on this predicted acidification,
showing that not all of this was statistically significant. This trend
of decreasing pH over time is presumed to be at least partly due to
management practices associated with irrigated cotton production, but
also appears to be affected by increased water flow through the profile
due to periods of very high rainfall. While acidification in the highly
alkaline soils that cover much of the study area is of no great concern
at this time, further acidification should be monitored. Further
investigation into utilising the correlation from other co-located soil
information should also be considered, such as different soil depths and
soil properties in combination with the different time points used in
this study.

### A preliminary spatial quantification of the soil security dimensions for Tasmania

Authors:
Kidd, D; Field, D; McBratney, A; Webb, M

Source:
*GEODERMA*, 322 184-200; JUL 15 2018 

Abstract:
Soil Security is a holistic soil assessment approach that cogitates soil
as a multi-dimensional medium. Rather than traditional single
dimensional assessment approaches such as land capability mapping that
largely considers only soil and landscape biophysical attributes, the
Soil Security concept considers social aspects, education, policy,
legislation, current land use, condition and the soils natural and
economic value to society. It can identify discrete soils that are
currently being used within their capacity, and areas where a use might
be unsustainable, i.e. not secure. It would therefore make sense to map
this concept, which aligns well with the aspirational and marketing
policies of the Tasmanian Government, where increased agricultural
expansion through new irrigation schemes and multiple-use State managed
production forests co-exists beside pristine World Heritage conservation
land, a major drawcard of the economically important tourism industry.
The spatial quantification of soil security is seen as an emerging tool
to effectively protect the soil resource in terms of food and water
security, biodiversity maintenance and safeguarding fragile ecosystems.
The recent development and application of Digital Soil Mapping and
Assessment capacities in Tasmania to stimulate agricultural production
and better target appropriate soil resource use has formed the
foundational system that can enable the first efforts in quantifying and
mapping Soil Security, in particular the five Soil Security dimensions
(Capability, Condition, Capital, Codification and Connectivity). This
forms a preliminary mapping product that demonstrates the feasibility of
mapping the Soil Security concept. To provide a measure of overall soil
security, it was necessary to separately assess the State's three major
soil uses; Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry. These outputs provide
an indication of where different activities are sustainable or at risk,
where more soil data is needed, and develops a tool to better plan for a
State requiring optimal food and fibre production, without depleting its
natural soil resources and impacting the fragile ecosystems providing
environmental benefits and supporting the tourism industry. The
following paper demonstrates why and how we might map Soil Security,
describing a preliminary approach to mapping the separate dimensions;
this approach could be adapted and applied elsewhere as an evaluation
tool to identify soil threats relevant to current land use, biophysical
properties, policy and management, and stimulate further research and
debate into developing a global Soil Security mapping methodology.


### Soil quality - A critical review

Authors:
Bunemann, EK; Bongiorno, G; Bai, ZG; Creamer, RE; De Deyn, G; de Goede,
R; Fleskens, L; Geissen, V; Kuyper, TW; Mader, P; Pulleman, M; Sukkel,
W; van Groenigen, JW; Brussaard, L

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 120 105-125; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Sampling and analysis or visual examination of soil to assess its status
and use potential is widely practiced from plot to national scales.
However, the choice of relevant soil attributes and interpretation of
measurements are not straightforward, because of the complexity and
site-specificity of soils, legacy effects of previous land use, and
trade-offs between ecosystem services. Here we review soil quality and
related concepts, in terms of definition, assessment approaches, and
indicator selection and interpretation. We identify the most frequently
used soil quality indicators under agricultural land use. We find that
explicit evaluation of soil quality with respect to specific soil
threats, soil functions and ecosystem services has rarely been
implemented, and few approaches provide clear interpretation schemes of
measured indicator values. This limits their adoption by land managers
as well as policy. We also consider novel indicators that address
currently neglected though important soil properties and processes, and
we list the crucial steps in the development of a soil quality
assessment procedure that is scientifically sound and supports
management and policy decisions that account for the multi-functionality
of soil. This requires the involvement of the pertinent actors,
stakeholders and end-users to a much larger degree than practiced to
date.

### The root of the matter: Linking root traits and soil organic matter stabilization processes

Authors:
Poirier, V; Roumet, C; Munson, AD

Source:
*SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY*, 120 246-259; MAY 2018 

Abstract:
Plant roots contribute substantially to the formation of stable soil
organic matter (SOM), and there is evidence that species differ in their
contribution to SOM stabilization. However, it remains unclear what
specific root traits contribute to the three SOM stabilization
mechanisms: recalcitrance against decomposition, occlusion in soil
aggregates and interaction with soil minerals and metals. This is likely
because research is highly fragmented and hampered by disciplinary
barriers. By reviewing both plant functional ecology and soil science
literature, we identified 18 different traits: architectural,
morphological, physiological, symbiotic and chemical root
characteristics, influencing the three SOM stabilization mechanisms. We
found that traits increasing root recalcitrance promote short term
stabilization by slowing decomposition, but that traits reducing
recalcitrance contribute to long term stabilization by reaction of
microbial products with mineral surfaces. Root length density,
mycorrhizal association and rhizodeposition contribute to
microaggregation. These and other traits, such as hemicellulose, soluble
compounds, and high root branching index, favor macroaggregation. For
stabilization by minerals and metals, those root traits promoting higher
microbial activity: root nitrogen, hemicellulose and soluble compound
concentrations are fundamental, while polyphenols, and litter Al and Mn
also contribute to complexification and stabilization. Root depth
distribution is the most important trait to control root C storage and
stabilization in the subsoil; once roots have reached deeper soil
layers, other traits, such as rhizodeposition and root chemistry,
influence interaction with minerals and metals. Both mycorrhizal
presence and root suberin promote SOC stabilization by means of all
three mechanisms, indicating that these are important targets for
continued work. Surprisingly, morphological traits commonly measured,
namely specific root length and root diameter, poorly relate to
stabilization mechanisms. Alternative traits such as chemical
composition of the different root orders, root apex characteristics,
quantity and quality of rhizodeposits as well as mycorrhizal fungal
traits, should be further investigated. For future research, this review
highlights the need to evaluate root decomposition and root-C
stabilization concomitantly over the long-term, considering
simultaneously root litter quality, estimated by root traits, the
microbial products and properties of the soil matrix. The information
accrued in this review can be used to evaluate the potential of plant
species and cultivars to promote SOM stabilization, based on their root
traits.




















