---
layout: post
title: Journal Paper Digests
author: Brendan Malone
create: 2020-12-02
modified: 2020-12-02
image:
    feature: CachedImage.jpg
categories: [Research, Digests]
tags: [Journal Papers, Research]
---

## Journal Paper Digests 2020 #20

* Dynamics of soil penetration resistance in water-controlled environments
* New pedotransfer functions for soil water retention curves that better account for bulk density effects
* A combined data mining approach for on-line prediction of key soil quality indicators by Vis-NIR spectroscopy
* Evaluating the applicability of soil moisture-based metrics for gauging the resiliency of rainfed agricultural systems in the midwestern United States
* Relationship between precipitation and 10Be and impacts on soil dynamics
* Vis-SWIR spectral prediction model for soil organic matter with different grouping strategies
* Landscape-scale spatial variability of kaolinite-gibbsite ratio in tropical soils detected by diffuse reflectance spectroscopy
* Problems of modern soil mapping and ways to solve them



<!--more-->

### Dynamics of soil penetration resistance in water-controlled environments

In water-controlled environments, because rainfall is one of the primary hydroclimatic forcings, its variability can affect the dynamics of soil water content and other related processes such as soil penetration resistance (PR), plant growth, and food production. The objective of this study was to simulate the relative soil water content (s) and PR year-round considering semi-arid rainfall conditions for different soil classes. An experiment was conducted to obtain relative soil water content (s) and PR data in sandy soil and this information was combined with a data set of four soils from a similar experiment conducted on different soil texture classes. The relative soil water content and PR were simulated at a daily timescale using a stochastic soil water balance model for the five soils. The parameters of the PR-s model can be estimated from the soil texture and bulk density. Under rainfed conditions, there is a short window for tillage (plowing and cultivation) of sandy soils compared with clay soils. During the majority of a typical hydrological year, the PR reaches high values (greater than 5.0MPa) imposing a moderate to high physical limitation for root growth in sandy soils. In the same soils, limiting PR is reached at s levels very close to the field capacity during the drying process. This indicates that an extra input of water through irrigation may be required during the establishment of crops with a well-developed root system in order to prevent impairments to root growth. The daily PR values modeled over the course of a hydrological year followed a beta distribution with shape parameters (α and β) which were strongly correlated with the frequency of rainfall events during the wet season (λwet). The modeling framework presented here for simulating relative soil water content and soil penetration resistance can be applied to agricultural systems in order to prevent physical limitations on crop growth and to plan tillage management schedules.

### New pedotransfer functions for soil water retention curves that better account for bulk density effects

Pedotransfer functions (PTFs) describing soil water retention curves (WRCs) have been widely used in crop, soil, and land surface models. A limitation of the available PTFs is that they fail to account for shape changes in WRCs due to bulk density variations caused by soil tillage, compaction, and other processes. This study develops new PTFs that include bulk density effects on the WRC shape. A new framework is introduced to build the bulk density-associated PTFs based on a widely-used WRC dataset. The new PTFs were validated by comparing the performance with two common PTFs from the literature using two independent datasets. The results show that the newly developed PTFs provide reliable WRC estimates for the validation datasets, with mean RMSE values of 0.055 and 0.059 m3 m-3, respectively. The accuracy of the new PTFs is comparable or in some cases better than the common PTFs. While the literature PTFs investigated do not always properly describe bulk density effects on WRC changes, the new PTFs effectively account for such effects on the WRC shape, thus have the potential to be integrated into crop and soil management models to represent bulk density impacts on WRCs due to anthropogenic (e.g., plowing and compaction) and natural (e.g., wetting/drying) processes.

### A combined data mining approach for on-line prediction of key soil quality indicators by Vis-NIR spectroscopy

Successful modelling of visible and near-infrared (vis-NIR) spectra for on-line prediction of key soil quality indicators is crucial for accurate variable rate applications of farm input resources. The aim of this paper is to optimize modelling of on-line collected spectra for the prediction of soil pH, organic carbon (OC), extractable phosphorous (P) and potassium (K) by means of spiking, combined with clustering and/or extra-weighting. A mobile fiber-type vis-NIR spectrophotometer (CompactSpec from Tec5 Technology, Germany), with spectral range of 305−1700 nm was calibrated using 100 samples collected from five different fields, which were merged with 28 samples collected from a target field. The resulting dataset was subjected to spectral pretreatments followed by k-means clustering and 95 % confidence ellipsoid, resulting in three optimal datasets. Partial least squares regression (PLSR) analyses were carried out on the calibration set (75 % of samples) for four calibration strategies: (i) non-clustered and non-weighted (NCNW), (ii) clustered and non-weighted (CNW), (iii) non-clustered but extra-weighted (NCW), and (iv) clustered and extra-weighted (CW). Results showed that the quality of on-line predictions was the best after clustering combined with extra-weighting. Modelling based with CW significantly improved model prediction accuracy to be very good for pH (ratio of prediction deviation (RPD) = 2.32) and P (RPD = 2.05), and good for OC (RPD = 1.90) and K (RPD = 1.80), whereas results of NCNW (standard calibration approach) were the poorest to be fair for P (RPD = 1.74) and OC (RPD = 1.50), and poor for K (RPD = 1.1) and pH (RPD = 1.39). It can be concluded that optimal sample selection with k-mean clustering when combined with extra-weighting will result in accurate PLSR calibration models for on-line prediction of soil pH, P, OC and K using a multi-field diverse dataset.

### Evaluating the applicability of soil moisture-based metrics for gauging the resiliency of rainfed agricultural systems in the midwestern United States

Measuring and improving resiliency is the key goal of climate risk management in rainfed agriculture. Currently, available metrics are generally used to qualitatively measure the resilience of agricultural systems at broader scales. Moreover, these metrics showed non-linear responses to climate variability, thus often fail to capture the temporal dynamics of resilience at field scales. Our objective for this study is to combine a few soil moisture-based metrics to gauge the resiliency of three promising rainfed agricultural treatments, namely the no-till, organic, and reduced input treatments against the conventional treatment. These treatments have been established at the Kellogg Biological Station Long-Term Ecological Research (KBS-LTER) experiment in a randomized complete block design with six blocks per treatment. All four of these treatments consisted of maize (Zea mays)-soybean (Glycine max)-winter wheat (Triticum aestivum) in rotation. Long-term (1993–2018) soil moisture data from this experiment was collected to compute the soil moisture metrics while the total crop biomass, crop yield, and soil organic carbon data were statistically analyzed to evaluate the robustness of the metrics to gauge the resiliency of these systems. Results have shown that, among the soil moisture metrics, the mean relative difference, the Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient, and soil water deficit index were suitable, while the index of temporal stability was not suitable to gauge the resiliency of different rainfed agricultural systems. The no-till treatment was identified as the most resilient treatment in terms of soil moisture retention, effectiveness for drought mitigation, and crop yields. Meanwhile, the reduced input treatment was the least resilient in terms of soil water conservation and drought recovery. The results of this study can be extended to other Midwest regions of the United States and similar climatological areas around the world.

### Relationship between precipitation and 10Be and impacts on soil dynamics

Meteoric beryllium-10 (10Be) is commonly used as a proxy of landscape dynamics (erosion and sedimentation rates) and soil development. Soil represents the first-stage reservoir of meteoric 10Be, and variability in the concentration of the isotope in soils may be affected by soil properties and atmospheric deposition. Although many investigations have targeted this issue, there are still problems in estimating the atmospheric input of the isotope in different soil environments. Here, we used 10Be data measured in soils distributed across China to explore the potential influence of meteorological and pedological conditions on the isotope concentration and related applications. In addition, to determine the mechanisms controlling 10Be concentrations in topsoil on a regional scale, the soil samples were sub-divided into 18 different catchments according to fluvial systems. The results indicated that there were significant negative correlations between precipitation and the soil 10Be concentration in high-precipitation regions (>1200 mm·y−1) and significant positive correlations for soils in low precipitation regions (<1200 mm·y−1). The data also revealed that precipitation is the most important variable controlling the 10Be concentration in soils of China when compared with the effects of soil properties such as grain size, mineralogy, pH, and cation exchange capacity. Land use and soil erosion may have limited impacts on the distribution of 10Be in soils.

### Vis-SWIR spectral prediction model for soil organic matter with different grouping strategies

The effect of soil organic matter (SOM) on the spectral characteristics of soil differs among soil samples of different soil types with various mineral contents or mechanical compositions. SOM prediction models with visible and near-infrared and shortwave infrared (Vis-SWIR) spectral variables for grouping soil samples are more accurate than global modeling methods. However, the optimal grouping method must be explored. We measured the Vis-SWIR (400–2500 nm) spectral reflectance of 274 soil samples from the Songnen Plain and applied different grouping strategies, including traditional soil grouping, spectral clustering grouping and decision tree grouping considering both traditional grouping information and spectral information. The original reflectance, continuum removal, and first-derivative reflectance were analyzed with competitive adaptive reweighted sampling (CARS), and the results were used as inputs to establish a random forest model for SOM prediction. The following results were obtained: (1) the decision tree grouping method is the optimal grouping strategy for the SOM prediction model; (2) among different inputs, first-derivative reflectance is optimal; and (3) CARS is an effective way to reduce the number of inputs and improve the prediction accuracy of SOM. This study provides an effective soil grouping methodology for SOM estimation at the soil great group level.

### Landscape-scale spatial variability of kaolinite-gibbsite ratio in tropical soils detected by diffuse reflectance spectroscopy

The use of diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) has gained prominence in the quantification of soil attributes due to its ease and practicality of obtaining data. This study aimed to evaluate the potential of different methodologies applied to spectral curves given by DRS to estimate kaolinite (Kt) and gibbsite (Gb), and their spatial variability characterization for the Western Plateau of São Paulo. The Western Plateau of São Paulo has 13 million hectares, 2 million of them covered by basalt and 11 million by sandstones. A total of 600 samples were collected at a depth of 0.0–0.20 m. Calibration curves were constructed with pure minerals for x-ray diffraction (XRD) and DRS techniques. The Kt/(Kt + Gb) ratio and the percentages of Kt and Gb were determined by XRD and using the following three methodologies applied to spectral curves: continuum removal technique (CR), direct ratio of the valley (DRV), and multivariate analysis by partial least squares regression (PLSR). The CR procedure had means similar to those observed by XRD, i.e., 0.90 and 0.92, respectively, while DRV overestimated the ratio, with a mean of 1.32. DRS allowed the estimation of the Kt/(Kt + Gb) ratio for the different geological and landscape compartments of the Western Plateau of São Paulo for the CR and DRV procedures. CR procedure allowed constructing models to be more efficient compared to those obtained by DRV and PLSR. The use of geostatistics to interpolate the data of the ratio Kt/(Kt + Gb) by DRS provided important information to define specific management zones accurately and more economically.

### Problems of modern soil mapping and ways to solve them

The article analyzes the problems of modern soil mapping and offers a new, interdisciplinary approach to overcoming them. Among these problems, the most noticeable are the following: harmonization and thematic content of soil maps, multiscale soil mapping, and global soil map. It is shown that the main reasons of problems in modern soil mapping are the recognition of the priority of the practical purposes of soil mapping over the scientific ones, the lack of understanding of the relationship between soil mapping and the conceptual soil classification, the neglect or misuse of the systems approach and contemporary theories of classification, the lack of a universal soil classification system, and an orientation toward new technological advances. It is emphasized that hopes for a successful solution to the problems of soil mapping using the latest technologies, tools and methods are largely unjustified, since, first of all, a consistent theory of soil mapping is necessary.

The theoretical foundations and technology for multiscale soil-landscape mapping in a GIS environment are described. Multiscale soil-landscape maps are defined as a system of interconnected maps of all scale ranges, which have a single classification basis and coordinated thematic content. They contain integrated information about soils and landscape systems, which are landscapes, considered from the point of view of the systems approach, and display soils mainly as derived landscape system elements. Another distinctive feature of multiscale soil-landscape maps is that they reflect the relationship between soil properties, on the one hand, and properties of the basic landscape system elements (parent rocks, air, water, and organisms), on the other. The advantages of multiscale soil-landscape mapping in comparison with traditional and digital are shown. From a practical point of view, multiscale soil-landscape maps are considered as the basis for making scientifically sound decisions on sustainable nature management at all levels - from global to local.


